The December 2001 enactment of the Financial Services Commission Act, 2001 established the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission as an autonomous regulatory authority responsible for the regulation, supervision and inspection of all financial services in and from within the BVI.
Read more
The Commission maintains this public list of regulated entities and other entities for the benefit of market participants and the public.
 
Search our library for financial services legislation, and guidance, the latest forms and industry and public alerts. The library also houses enforcement actions taken and published by the Commission.
 
We Educate and Inform the general public and industry practitioners on matters relating to financial services business.
 

This educational video on Terrorist Financing (TF), is designed to enhance industry awareness and understanding of TF risks and promote effective compliance within the Virgin Islands’ financial sector.
The video outlines what terrorist financing is, how funds are raised, moved and used for terrorist purposes, and the responsibilities of supervised entities in mitigating TF risks. It also highlights the importance of customer due diligence, sanctions screening, ongoing monitoring, and timely reporting of suspicious activity.
Licensees are reminded of their obligations under the Counter-Terrorism Act, relevant Orders in Council and the wider AML/ CFT/ CPF framework. They are encouraged to view the video and ensure staff are aware of and carry out their responsibilities including:

Screening clients and their directors and beneficial owners against sanctions lists
Freezing and reporting funds or assets linked to designated persons
Following guidance and notices issued by the Commission and the Financial Investigation Agency


For more information, or questions, please contact [email protected]


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission uses cookies to capture data, allowing us to improve our site experience for everyone. To learn about how we use cookies please visit our privacy policy
Copyright © 2025 British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission. All rights reserved.