The December 2001 enactment of the Financial Services Commission Act, 2001 established the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission as an autonomous regulatory authority responsible for the regulation, supervision and inspection of all financial services in and from within the BVI.
Read more
The Commission maintains this public list of regulated entities and other entities for the benefit of market participants and the public.
 
Search our library for financial services legislation, and guidance, the latest forms and industry and public alerts. The library also houses enforcement actions taken and published by the Commission.
 
We Educate and Inform the general public and industry practitioners on matters relating to financial services business.
 
The FSC is mindful of the challenges posed to conducting customer verification in the current environment of COVID-19, where curfew orders, social distancing, and self-isolation have become a part of our daily existence.

Emerging risks arising out of the current pandemic environment have been identified by the FATF, which makes it even more important to confirm that a client is who they say they are. Independent verification options are a critical part of the client acceptance process, particularly for ECDD purposes. 
 
Section 23 of the AML/CFT Code of Practice provides for the acceptance of electronic/ digital verification of identity. The FSC does not wish to be overly prescriptive in outlining acceptable verification options; instead, customer verification options should align with licensees’ risk assessments of their clients. Accepted documents, electronic or otherwise, should fit with clients’ risk profiles and be subject to appropriate risk management processes. 

As the AML/CFT Code of Practice requires you to take a risk-based approach to your operations, licensees should have client monitoring procedures commensurate with any risk assessment carried out.   
Where verification has been attempted unsuccessfully due to restrictions relating to the ongoing pandemic, such attempts should be documented and made available to the supervisor upon request.  Licensees should review unsuccessful ID verifications at regular intervals during the pandemic period. 
Where identification documents may have recently expired, these may still be accepted but should be flagged for follow up within a reasonable time to ensure they are updated accordingly.
Licensees are strongly encouraged to consider alternative delivery methods for AML related staff training. Options which do not require persons to travel or be physically present in a classroom-type environment may be facilitated via online platforms, or through participation in webinars and other online learning modules. In-house training, which may be facilitated by your MLRO, compliance officer, or another qualified senior officer, should be considered to meet the staff training obligations. 
Licensees should document any instance where scheduled AML training is postponed or cancelled by the organiser or yourself, due to COVID-19 pandemic restrictions, and specify (a) the reasons for the cancellation, whether due to travel or other social distancing restrictions and (b) that attempts to source alternative arrangements were unsuccessful
Suspicious Transaction Reporting FAQs: Financial Institutions
Red Flags for Suspicious Transaction or Activities FAQs
Suspicious Transaction Reporting FAQs
Suspicious Transaction Reporting Filing Process FAQs
Suspicious Transaction Potential Examples
British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission uses cookies to capture data, allowing us to improve our site experience for everyone. To learn about how we use cookies please visit our privacy policy
Copyright © 2025 British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission. All rights reserved.