 
1 
 
No. 8 of 2025 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2025 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
SECTION 
1. 
Short title and commencement 
2. 
Insertion of sections 4B, 4C and 4D 
3. 
Section 33 amended 
4. 
Section 35 amended  
5. 
Section 36 amended 
6. 
Insertion of section 53A 
 
 
 
 
2 
No. 8 of 2025 
Drug Trafficking Offences  
Virgin 
 
(Amendment) Act, 2025 
Islands 
 
 
 
I ASSENT 
 
 
(Sgd.) Daniel Pruce, 
Governor. 
10th April, 2025 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
No. 8 of 2025 
  
AN ACT TO AMEND THE DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT, REVISED EDITION 
2020, TO ADDRESS CERTAIN DEFICIENCIES IDENTIFIED IN THE CARIBBEAN FINANCIAL 
ACTION TASK FORCE (CFATF) FOURTH ROUND MUTUAL EVALUATION REPORT IN 
RELATION TO COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS ON MONEY 
LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST FINANCING AND FOR RELATED MATTERS. 
[Gazetted 17th April, 2025] 
 
ENACTED by the Legislature of the Virgin Islands as follows: 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Drug Trafficking Offences (Amendment) 
Act, 2025. 
(2)  This Act shall come into force on such date as the Governor may, by 
Notice published in the Gazette, appoint. 
Insertion of sections 4B, 4C and 4D 
2. The Drug Trafficking Offences Act, Revised Edition 2020, (hereinafter 
referred to as the “principal Act”) is amended by inserting after section 4A, the 
following sections: 
“Authorised person 
4B. (1) The Commissioner of Police may authorise a police officer, or 
any other person, in writing, to act as a covert operative for the purpose of 
detecting the commission of an offence under this Act. 
  (2) The Commissioner of Police, at any time, may revoke in writing 
an authorisation granted under subsection (1) and such revocation shall 
 
3 
have effect once issued to the police officer or any other person authorised 
under subsection (1). 
  (3) For the purpose of subsection (1), an authorised person may 
acquire and have in his or her possession a dangerous drug. 
  (4) An authorised person who exercises the powers conferred on 
the person by subsection (3) is not an accomplice in respect of, and does 
not commit, any offences detected in the exercise of the person’s powers 
and the person’s evidence is admissible in any proceedings against an 
accused person for such offences. 
  (5) An authorised person other than a police officer who, after 
having acquired a controlled drug under subsection (3), fails to deliver 
such controlled drug as soon as reasonably possible, to a police officer 
commits an offence. 
  (6) A certificate issued and signed by the Commissioner of Police 
stating that the person named in the certificate is an authorised person 
during the specified period shall, until the contrary is proved, be evidence 
of the matters stated the certificate. 
  (7) A police officer who exercises any of the powers shall comply 
with such procedures as may be prescribed in in the Police Act, Revised 
Edition 2013, for the conduct of special investigative techniques. 
Powers of investigation 
4C. (1) Subject to subsection (3), where a Judge in Chambers is 
satisfied by information on oath that there is reasonable ground to suspect 
that an offence under this Act has been or is likely to be committed, the 
Judge may issue a warrant authorising a police officer 
(a) to tap or place under surveillance, for a period not 
exceeding six months, the telephone lines used by any 
person suspected of participation in the commission of 
such an offence; 
(b) to have access to the computer systems used by any person 
suspected of participation in the commission of such an 
offence and place them under surveillance; 
(c) to place a bank account under surveillance when it is 
suspected of being used for operations related to such an 
offence; or 
(d) to have access to all banks, financial and commercial 
records that may reasonably concern transactions related to 
such an offence. 
(2) Notwithstanding any other enactments, a person shall not, on the 
ground of professional secrecy or otherwise refuse, to comply with the 
requirements of a warrant issued under subsection (1). 
(3)  
Where an application under subsection (1) is to be made 
and the potential subject of that application is a member of the House of 
Assembly, the Commissioner of Police shall, prior to making the 
 
4 
application, obtain the approval of the Premier, or if the subject is the 
Premier, obtain the approval of the Governor. 
Controlled delivery 
4D. (1) The Commissioner of Police or a Gazetted Police Officer 
authorised by the Commissioner of Police may authorise the passage or 
entry into the Territory of any consignment of dangerous drugs suspected 
of being dispatched with a view to the commission of an offence under 
this Act, for the purpose of identifying the persons involved in the 
commission of such an offence. 
(2) The Commissioner of Police or a person authorised under 
subsection (1) may, if the Commissioner of Police or the authorised person 
thinks fit, cause the consignment to be lawfully intercepted and allowed to 
proceed upon its way either intact or after seizure of the dangerous drugs 
contained in the consignment and may also direct their replacement by 
substances other than controlled drugs. 
(3) The exercise of any of the powers contained in this section shall 
not afford any defence to a person charged with an offence under this Act. 
(4) The Commissioner of Police may consult with the Commissioner 
for Customs in the exercise of any of the powers under subsections (1) and 
(2). 
(5) The Commissioner for Customs shall comply with instructions 
issued by the Commissioner of Police for the purpose of carrying out any 
of the powers under this section. 
(6) An officer who exercises any of the powers shall comply with 
such procedures as may be prescribed in in the Police Act for the conduct 
of special investigative techniques.”. 
Section 33 amended 
3. Section 33 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (9) 
(a) in paragraph (a),  
(i)  by deleting the numeral “7” and substituting the numeral “8”; 
and 
(ii) by deleting the numerals “$300,000” and substituting the 
numerals “$500,000”; and  
(b) in paragraph (b),  
(i)  by deleting the numerals “15” and substituting the numerals 
“20”; and 
 
(ii) by deleting the numerals “$600,000” and substituting the 
numerals “$1,500,000”. 
Section 35 amended 
4. Section 35 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (6)(a) by deleting 
the words “3 years” and substituting the words “4 years”.  
 
5 
Section 36 amended 
5. Section 36 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (10)(a) by deleting 
the words “a fine not exceeding $150,000” and substituting the words “a fine not 
exceeding $250,000”. 
Insertion of section 53A 
6. The principal Act is amended by inserting after section 53 the following 
section: 
“Duty to co-operate or provide assistance in drug investigation and 
proceedings 
53A. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner of 
Police may, upon a request in writing or on his or her own volition, co-
operate with 
(a) any law enforcement agency in the Territory; 
(b) a competent authority acting pursuant to an enactment; or  
(c) any foreign law enforcement agency, for the purposes of  
(i) 
investigating an offence;  
(ii) assisting with or facilitating any investigating of an 
offence; or  
(iii) ensuring compliance with a request from a law 
enforcement agency in the Territory, a competent 
authority or a foreign law enforcement agency, acting 
pursuant to an enactment.  
(2) Co-operation for the purposes of this section may include 
(a) the sharing of documents and information which the 
Commissioner is not prevented by this Act or any other 
enactment from disclosing; or 
(b) making requests for assistance to any law enforcement 
agency in the Territory, competent authority or foreign law 
enforcement agency acting pursuant to an enactment.  
(3) Where, pursuant to a request for assistance made in accordance 
with this section, any information, document or other material is received, 
the Commissioner shall, if requested in writing by the authority that 
provided the information, document or other material, provide in a timely 
manner feedback to that authority on the use and usefulness of the 
information, document or other material received.  
(4) In providing the feedback on the request for assistance referred to 
in subsection (3), the Commissioner have regard to the needs of the 
requesting authority for expeditious action as well as any specific 
timeframes indicated by the requesting authority. 
(5) The competent authority may issue such guidelines as may be 
required for the procedures and measures in relation to co-operation with 
 
6 
law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and foreign law 
enforcement agencies for the purposes of this section. 
(6) For the purposes of this section, “foreign law enforcement 
agencies” means any authority in a jurisdiction outside the Virgin Islands 
which exercises a power or performs a function corresponding or similar to 
a power or function exercised or performed by Customs, as established 
under the Customs Management and Duties Act,2010.”. 
 
 
Passed by the House of Assembly this 28th day of February, 2025. 
 
 
(Sgd.) Corine N. George-Massicote, 
Speaker. 
 
 
 
(Sgd.) Bethsaida Smith-Hanley, 
Clerk of the House of Assembly. 
 
 
 
