1 
 
No. 7 of 2025 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2025 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
SECTION 
 
1. 
Short title and commencement 
 
2. 
Section 2 amended 
 
3. 
Section 16 amended 
 
4. 
Section 17 amended 
 
5. 
Section 28 amended 
 
6. 
Section 29 amended 
 
7. 
Section 30 amended 
 
8. 
Section 30A amended 
 
9. 
Section 31 amended 
 
10. 
Sections 31A to 31AF inserted 
 
11. 
Section 33A inserted 
 
12. 
Section 34B amended 
 
13. 
Sections 34C and 34D inserted 
 
14. 
Section 35A repealed 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
No. 7 of 2025                  Proceeds of Criminal Conduct  
Virgin 
 
   (Amendment) Act, 2025 
Islands 
 
 
 
I ASSENT 
 
 
(Sgd.) Daniel Pruce, 
Governor. 
10th April, 2025 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
No. 7 of 2025 
 
AN ACT TO AMEND THE PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT ACT, REVISED 
EDITION 2020 TO ADDRESS CERTAIN DEFICIENCIES IDENTIFIED IN THE CARIBBEAN 
FINANCIAL ACTION TASK FORCE (CFATF) FOURTH ROUND MUTUAL EVALUATION 
REPORT IN RELATION TO COMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS ON 
MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST FINANCING AND FOR RELATED MATTERS. 
 
[Gazetted 17th April, 2025] 
 
ENACTED by the Legislature of the Virgin Islands as follows: 
Short title and commencement 
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct 
(Amendment) Act, 2025. 
(2)  This Act shall come into force on such date as the Minister of Finance 
may, by Notice published in the Gazette, appoint.  
Section 2 amended 
2. Section 2 of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, Revised Edition 2020, 
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal Act”) is amended in subsection (1), by 
inserting, in the appropriate alphabetical sequence, the following definition: 
““financial institution” means a relevant person carrying on relevant 
business as defined in regulation 2(1) of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 2020;”; 
“senior police officer” means a police officer of the rank of Superintendent 
or above;”. 
 
3 
 
Section 16 amended 
3. Section 16 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (1), by repealing 
paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraphs: 
“(a) a criminal investigation has been started in the Territory with 
regard to an offence and there is reasonable cause to believe that a 
person who is the subject of that investigation, has benefited from 
that person’s alleged criminal conduct; or 
(aa) proceedings for an offence to which this Act applies have been 
instituted against a person for that offence;”. 
Section 17 amended 
4. Section 17 of the principal Act is amended by inserting after subsection (3), 
the following subsections: 
“(3A)  Without prejudice to subsection (3), a restraint order may apply 
to all property reasonably suspected of being linked to money laundering, 
terrorist financing or a predicate offence, including property held by third 
parties. 
(3B) For the purposes of subsection (3A), a restraint order may 
extend to prohibit the transfer or further disposition of property, including 
in instances where such property has been transferred to third parties 
subsequent to the issuance of the order.”. 
Section 28 amended 
5. Section 28 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (8) 
(a) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 2 
years or to a fine not exceeding $250,000” and substituting the 
words “a term not exceeding 8 years or to a fine not exceeding 
$500,000”; and 
(b) in paragraph (b), by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 14 
years or to a fine not exceeding $500,000” and substituting the 
words “a term not exceeding 20 years or to a fine not exceeding 
$1,500,000”. 
Section 29 amended 
6. Section 29 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (11) 
(a) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 2 years or to a fine not 
exceeding, $250,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 8 years and a fine not exceeding $500,000”; and 
(b) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 14 years or to a fine 
not exceeding $750,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 20 years and a fine not exceeding $1,500,000”. 
Section 30 amended 
7. Section 30 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (4) 
 
4 
 
(a) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 2 years or to a fine not 
exceeding, $250,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 8 years and a fine not exceeding $500,000”; and 
(b) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 14 years or to a fine 
not exceeding $500,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 20 years and a fine not exceeding $1,500,000”. 
Section 30A amended 
8. Section 30A of the principal Act is amended  
(a) in subsection (10)  
(i) by deleting the words “a fine not exceeding $150,000, 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,” and 
substituting the words “a term not exceeding 8 years and a fine 
not exceeding $500,000”; and 
(ii) by deleting the words “a fine not exceeding $500,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years” and 
substituting the words “a term not exceeding 20 years and a 
fine not exceeding $1,500,000”; 
(b) in subsection (11) by deleting the words “to a fine not exceeding 
$150,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years” and 
substituting the words “a term not exceeding 8 years and a fine not 
exceeding $500,000”. 
Section 31 amended 
9. Section 31 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (9) 
(a) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 2 years or to a fine not 
exceeding $250,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 8 years and a fine not exceeding $500,000”; and 
(b) by deleting the words “a term not exceeding 5 years or to a fine not 
exceeding $500,000” and substituting the words “a term not 
exceeding 20 years and a fine not exceeding $1,500,000”. 
Sections 31A to 31AE inserted 
10. The principal Act is amended by inserting after section 31, the following 
new Part: 
“INVESTIGATIONS 
DIVISION 1 - PRODUCTION ORDERS  
Production orders  
31A. (1)  Notwithstanding section 36, a Judge in Chambers may, on an 
application by a senior police officer, make a production order if that  Judge 
is satisfied that each of the requirements for the making of the order is 
fulfilled.  
 
5 
 
  (2)  For the purposes of this Part, a “production order” is an order 
either 
(a) requiring the person whom the application for the order 
specifies as appearing to be in possession or control of 
material to produce the material to a police officer for that 
person to take away; or  
(b) requiring that person to give a police officer access to the 
material,  
within the period stated in the order.  
(3) The application for a production order shall state that 
(a) a person specified in the application is subject to a 
confiscation 
investigation 
or 
a 
money 
laundering 
investigation; or  
(b) property specified in the application is subject to a civil 
recovery investigation; and  
(c) the order is sought for the purposes of the investigation; and  
(d) the order is sought in relation to material, or material of a 
description, specified in the application; and  
(e) a person specified in the application appears to be in 
possession or control of the material.  
(4) The period stated in a production order shall be a period of 7 days 
beginning with the day on which the order is made, unless it appears to the  
Judge by whom the order is made that a longer or shorter period would be 
appropriate in the particular circumstances.  
(5) Where a  Judge makes a production order under this section, the 
order need not be served on the person who is under investigation.  
Requirements for making of production order  
31B. 
A Judge, in order to grant a production order, shall be satisfied that 
(a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that  
(i) 
in the case of a confiscation investigation, the person 
whom the application for the order specifies as being 
subject to the investigation has benefited from that 
person’s criminal conduct;  
(ii) in the case of a civil recovery investigation, the property 
which the application for the order specifies as being 
subject to the investigation is recoverable property or 
associated property; and  
(iii) in the case of a money laundering investigation, the 
person whom the application for the order specifies as 
being subject to the investigation has committed a 
money laundering offence; 
(b) there are strong grounds for believing that the person whom 
the application specifies as appearing to be in possession or 
 
6 
 
control of the material so specified is in possession or control 
of it;  
(c) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the material is 
likely to be of substantial value, whether or not by itself, to the 
investigation for the purposes of which the order is sought; 
and  
(d) there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in the 
public interest for the material to be produced or for access to 
it to be given, having regard to 
(i) 
the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the 
material is obtained; and  
(ii) the circumstances under which the person whom the 
application specifies as appearing to be in possession or 
control of the material holds it.  
Order to grant entry 
31C. (1) Where a Judge makes a production order requiring a person to give 
a police officer access to material on any premises the  Judge may, on an 
application 
(a) made to that  Judge by a police officer; and  
(b) specifying the premises,  
make an order to grant entry in relation to the premises.  
  (2) An order to grant entry is an order requiring any person who 
appears to a police officer to be entitled to grant entry to the premises, to allow 
that police officer to enter the premises to obtain access to the material.  
Production order confers no right to privileged material 
31D. (1) A production order shall  
(a) not require a person to produce, or give access to, privileged 
material;  
(b) not require a person to produce, or give access to, excluded 
material; and  
(c) have effect in spite of any restriction on the disclosure of 
information however imposed.  
 (2) Privileged material is any material which the person would be 
entitled to refuse to produce on grounds of legal professional privilege.  
 (3) A police officer may take copies of any material which is 
produced, or to which access is given, in compliance with a production order 
and such material may be retained for so long as it is necessary to retain it (in 
its original form) in connection with the investigation for the purposes of 
which the order was made.  
 (4) Notwithstanding subsection (3), where a senior police officer has 
reasonable grounds for believing that   
 
7 
 
(a) the material may need to be produced for the purposes of any 
legal proceedings; and  
(b) it might otherwise be unavailable for those purposes,  
it may be retained until the proceedings are concluded.  
Computer information  
31E. (1) This section applies if any of the material specified in an 
application for a production order consists of information contained in a 
computer.  
 (2) Where a production order is an order  
(a) requiring a person to produce the material to a police officer 
for that police officer to take away, it has effect as an order to 
produce the material in a form in which it can be taken away 
by that police officer and in which it is visible and legible; and  
(b) requiring a person to give a police officer access to the 
material, it has effect as an order to give that police officer 
access to the material in a form in which it is visible and 
legible.  
 (3) For the purposes of this section, “computer” has the same meaning 
assigned in section 2(1) of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrime Act, No. 9 
of 2014. 
Government entities  
31F. (1) A production order may be made in relation to material in the 
possession or control of a government entity.  
 (2) An order made in accordance with subsection (1) may require any 
officer of the entity (whether named in the order or not) who may, for the time 
being, be in possession or control of the material to comply with it and such 
order shall be served as if the proceedings were civil proceedings against the 
entity. 
 (3) Where an order contains such a requirement  
(a) the person on whom it is served shall take all reasonable steps 
to bring it to the attention of the officer concerned; and  
(b) any other officer of the entity who is in receipt of the order 
shall also take all reasonable steps to bring it to the attention 
of the officer concerned.  
 (4) Where the order is not brought to the attention of the officer 
concerned within the period stated in the order, the person on whom it is served 
shall report the reasons for the failure to the  Judge that issued the order.  
 (5) For the purposes of this section,  
“government entity” includes 
(a) a Ministry, department, or division of the Ministry; or 
(b) such other body as the Minister of Finance may prescribe for 
the purposes of this section; 
 
8 
 
“officer” includes the Permanent Secretary, or any other senior person 
within the government entity by whosoever name called; 
(6) 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Cabinet Office, House of 
Assembly and National Security Council do not fall within the definition of a 
government entity. 
Supplementary: production orders and orders to grant entry  
31G. (1) An application for a production order or an order to grant entry 
may be made ex parte to a Judge in Chambers.  
 (2) Provision may be made by rules of court for the practice and 
procedure to be followed in connection with proceedings relating to 
production orders and orders to grant entry.  
 (3) An application to discharge or vary a production order or an order 
to grant entry may be made to the High Court by the person who applied for 
the order or any person affected by the order.  
 (4) The High Court may discharge or vary a production order or an 
order to grant entry.  
 (5) Where a police officer or a customs officer applies for a production 
order or an order to grant entry, an application to discharge or vary the order 
need not be by the same police officer or customs officer but that officer must 
be of the same rank or above.  
 (6) References to a person who applied for a production order or an 
order to grant entry shall be construed accordingly.  
 
DIVISION 2 - SEARCH AND SEIZURE WARRANTS  
Search and seizure warrants  
31H. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act or any other 
enactment, the High Court may, on an application made to it by a senior police 
officer, issue a search and seizure warrant under this section if the High Court 
is satisfied that either of the requirements for the issuing of the warrant set out 
in subsection (3) is fulfilled.  
 (2) For the purposes of this section, a search and seizure warrant is a 
warrant authorising an appropriate person  
(a) to enter and search the premises specified in the application 
for the warrant; and  
(b) to seize and retain any material found there which is likely to 
be of substantial value (whether or not by itself) to the 
investigation for the purposes of which the application is 
made. 
 (3) An application for a search and seizure warrant shall state that  
(a) a person specified in the application is subject to a 
confiscation 
investigation 
or 
a 
money 
laundering 
 
9 
 
investigation or the property specified in the application is 
subject to a civil recovery investigation; or  
(b) the warrant is sought for the purposes of the investigation and  
(i) 
the warrant is sought in relation to the premises specified 
in the application; and  
(ii) the warrant is sought in relation to material specified in 
the application, or that there are reasonable grounds for 
believing that there is material falling within section 31I 
(2), (3) or (4) on the premises.  
 (4) The requirements for the issue of a search and seizure warrant are  
(a) that a production order made in relation to material has not 
been complied with and there are reasonable grounds for 
believing that the material is on the premises specified in the 
application for the warrant; or  
(b) that section 31I is satisfied in relation to the warrant.  
(5) 
For the purposes of this section and section 31I, an “appropriate 
person” is a police officer or a customs officer or a person employed by the 
Agency for the purpose of receiving reports under this Act. Requirements 
where production order not available.  
31I. (1) Where there is no production order the High Court may for the 
reasons stated in subsection (2) issue a search and seizure warrant if the 
conditions set out in section 31B are satisfied.  
 (2) The reasons under subsection (1) are 
(a) that it is not practicable to communicate with any person 
against whom the production order could be made;  
(b) that it is not practicable to communicate with any person who 
would be required to comply with an order to grant entry to 
the premises; or  
(c) that the investigation might be seriously prejudiced unless an 
appropriate person is able to secure immediate access to the 
material.  
 (3) In the case of a confiscation investigation, material falls within this 
subsection if it cannot be identified at the time of the application but it  
(a) relates to the person specified in the application, the question 
whether that person has benefited from that person’s criminal 
conduct or any question as to the extent or whereabouts of that 
person’s benefit from that person’s criminal conduct; and  
(b) is likely to be of substantial value (whether or not by itself) to 
the investigation for the purposes of which the warrant is 
sought.  
 (4) In the case of a civil recovery investigation, material falls within 
this subsection if it cannot be identified at the time of the application but it  
(a) relates to the property specified in the application or to  
 
10 
 
(i) 
the question whether it is recoverable property or 
associated property;  
(ii) the question as to who holds any such property;  
(iii) any question as to whether the person who appears to 
hold any such property holds other property which is 
recoverable property; or  
(iv) any question as to the extent or whereabouts of any 
property mentioned in this paragraph; and  
(b) is likely to be of substantial value (whether or not by itself) to 
the investigation for the purposes of which the warrant is 
sought.  
(5) 
In the case of a money laundering investigation, material falls 
within this subsection if it cannot be identified at the time of the application 
but it 
(a) relates to the person specified in the application or the 
question whether that person has committed a money 
laundering offence; and  
(b) is likely to be of substantial value (whether or not by itself) to 
the investigation for the purposes of which the warrant is 
sought.  
Warrant confers no right to privileged material 
31J. (1) A search and seizure warrant does not confer the right to seize 
privileged or excluded material.  
 (2) Privileged material is any material which a person would be 
entitled to refuse to produce on grounds of legal professional privilege.  
Further provisions: civil recovery  
31K. (1) An application for a search and seizure warrant sought for the 
purposes of civil recovery investigations may be made ex parte to a  Judge in 
Chambers and such warrant may be issued subject to conditions.  
 (2) A warrant  
(a) shall continue in force until the end of the period of one month 
starting with the day on which it is issued; and  
(b) authorises the person it names to require any information 
(i) 
which is held in a computer; and 
(ii) is accessible from the premises specified in the 
application for the warrant; and 
(iii) which the named person believes relates to any matter 
relevant to the investigation, 
to be produced in a form in which it can be taken away and in which it is 
visible and legible. 
 
11 
 
 (3) Where the Commissioner of Police gives written authority for a 
police officer to accompany the person a warrant names when executing it and 
a warrant is issued the authorised officers have the same powers under the 
warrant as the named person.  
 (4) A warrant may include provision authorising a person who is 
exercising powers under it to do such reasonable things which are not specified 
in the warrant, and need to be done in order to give effect to it.  
 (5) Copies may be taken of any material seized under a warrant.  
 (6) Material seized under a warrant may be retained in its original 
form for so long as it is necessary to retain it in connection with the 
investigation for the purposes of which the warrant was issued.  
 (7) Notwithstanding subsection (6), if the Commissioner of Police has 
reasonable grounds for believing that the material seized may have to be 
produced for the purposes of any legal proceedings, and the material might 
otherwise be unavailable for those purposes, it may be retained until the 
proceedings are concluded.  
 
DIVISION 3 - DISCLOSURE ORDERS  
Disclosure orders  
31L. (1) The High Court may, on an application made to the High Court by 
a gazetted police officer, make a disclosure order if the High Court is satisfied 
that each of the requirements set out in section 31M for the making of the order 
is fulfilled.  
 (2) A disclosure order is an order authorising a gazetted police officer 
to give to any person the gazetted police officer considers has relevant 
information, notice in writing requiring that person to do, with respect to any 
matter relevant to the investigation for the purposes of which the order is 
sought, any or all of the following: 
(a) answer questions, either at a time specified in the notice or at 
once, at a place so specified;  
(b) provide information specified in the notice, by a time and in a 
manner so specified; or  
(c) produce documents, or documents of a description, specified 
in the notice, either at or by a time so specified or at once, and 
in a manner so specified.  
 (3) An application for a disclosure order shall not be made in relation 
to a money laundering investigation.  
 (4) The application for a disclosure order shall state that  
(a) a person specified in the application is subject to a 
confiscation investigation and the order is sought for the 
purposes of the investigation; or  
 
12 
 
(b) property specified in the application is subject to a civil 
recovery investigation and the order is sought for the purposes 
of the investigation.  
 (5) For the purposes of this Part, “relevant information” is information 
(whether or not contained in a document) which the gazetted police officer 
considers to be relevant to the investigation.  
 (6) A police officer shall produce a copy of the disclosure order to the 
person named therein as evidence of that police officer’s  authority and failing 
which, the person is not bound to comply.  
 (7) Where a  Judge makes a disclosure order under this section, the 
order need not be served on the person who is under investigation. 
 (8) For the purposes of this section, “gazetted police officer” has the 
same meaning as in section 2 of the Police Act, Revised Edition 2013. 
Requirements for the making of disclosure order  
31M. 
The High Court may make a disclosure order if  
(a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that 
(i) 
in the case of a confiscation investigation, the person 
specified in the application for the order has benefited 
from that person’s criminal conduct; or  
(ii) in the case of a civil recovery investigation, the property 
specified in the application for the order is recoverable 
property or associated property;  
(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that information 
which may be provided in compliance with a requirement 
imposed under the order is likely to be of substantial value 
(whether or not by itself) to the investigation for the purposes 
of which the order is sought; and  
(c) there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in the 
public interest for the information to be provided, having 
regard to the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the 
information is obtained.  
Offences: failure to comply with disclosure order  
31N. (1) A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse that 
person fails to comply with a requirement imposed on that person under a 
disclosure order.  
 (2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable 
on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding $4,000 or imprisonment for a 
term not exceeding 6 months, or to both.  
 (3) A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a 
requirement imposed on that person under a disclosure order, that person  
(a) makes a statement which that person knows to be false or 
misleading in a material particular; or  
 
13 
 
(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false or misleading in a 
material particular.  
 (4) A person who commits an offence under subsection (3) is liable  
(a) on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding $4,000 or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or to both; 
or  
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $10,000, 
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years, or to both.  
Statements: disclosure orders  
31O. (1) A statement made by a person in response to a requirement 
imposed on that person under a disclosure order may not be used in evidence 
against that person in criminal proceedings.  
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply  
(a) in the case of proceedings under Part 4;  
(b) on a prosecution for an offence under section 31N(1) or (3)  
(c) on a prosecution for an offence of perjury or making false 
statements; or  
(d) on a prosecution for some other offence where, in giving 
evidence, the person makes a statement inconsistent with the 
statement mentioned in subsection (1).  
 (3) A statement may not be used by virtue of subsection (2)(d) against 
a person unless the evidence relating to it is adduced or a question relating to 
it is asked by that person or on that person’s behalf in the proceedings arising 
out of the prosecution.  
 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), a reference to Part 4 is a 
reference to the Part of this Act titled “ENFORCEMENT, ETC., OF 
CONFISCATION ORDERS”. 
Disclosure orders confer no right to privileged information 
31P. (1) A disclosure order shall not confer the right to require a person to 
answer any privileged question, provide any privileged information or produce 
any privileged document.  
 (2) A privileged question is a question which the person would be 
entitled to refuse to answer on grounds of legal professional privilege.  
 (3) Privileged information is any information which the person would 
be entitled to refuse to provide on grounds of legal professional privilege.  
 (4) A disclosure order shall not confer the right to require a person to 
produce excluded material and has effect notwithstanding any restriction on 
the disclosure of information however imposed.  
 (5) A police officer of or above the rank of Inspector may take copies 
of any documents produced in compliance with a requirement to produce them 
which is imposed under a disclosure order and documents so produced may 
be retained in their original form for so long as it is necessary to retain them 
 
14 
 
in connection with the investigation for the purposes of which the order was 
made.  
 (6) Notwithstanding subsection (5), where the Commissioner of 
Police has reasonable grounds for believing that the documents may have to 
be produced for the purposes of any legal proceedings, and they might 
otherwise be unavailable for those purposes they may be retained until the 
proceedings are concluded.  
 (7) For the purposes of this Part, “excluded material” means 
(a) personal records which a person has acquired or created in the 
course of any trade, business, profession or other occupation 
or for the purposes of any paid or unpaid office and which that 
person holds in confidence;  
(b) human tissue or tissue fluid which has been taken for the 
purposes of diagnosis or medical treatment and which a 
person holds in confidence; or  
(c) journalistic material which a person holds in confidence and 
which consists of documents and of records other than 
documents.  
Supplementary: applications for disclosure orders  
31Q. (1) An application for a disclosure order may be made ex parte to a  
Judge in chambers.  
 (2) Rules of court may provide for the practice and procedure to be 
followed in proceedings relating to disclosure orders.  
 (3) An application to discharge or vary a disclosure order may be 
made to the High Court by the Commissioner of Police or any person affected 
by the order.  
 (4) The High Court may discharge or vary a disclosure order.  
 (5) Subsections (2) to (4) do not apply to orders made for the purposes 
of a civil recovery investigation.  
 
DIVISION 4 - CUSTOMER INFORMATION ORDERS  
Customer information orders  
31R. (1) The High Court may, on an application made to that High Court 
by a senior police officer, make a customer information order, if the High 
Court is satisfied that each of the requirements set out in subsection (3) for the 
making of the order is fulfilled.  
 (2) For the purposes of this Part, a “customer information order” is an 
order that a financial institution covered by the application for the order shall, 
on being required to do so by notice in writing given by a senior police officer, 
provide any such customer information as it has relating to the person 
specified in the application.  
 (3) The application for a customer information order shall state that  
 
15 
 
(a) a person specified in the application is subject to a confiscation 
investigation or a money laundering investigation; or  
(b) property specified in the application is subject to a civil 
recovery investigation and a person specified in the application 
appears to hold the property;  
(c) the order is sought for the purposes of the investigation; and  
(d) the order is sought against the financial institution or financial 
institutions specified in the application.  
 (4) An application for a customer information order may specify 
(a) all financial institutions;  
(b) a particular description, or particular descriptions, of financial 
institutions; or  
(c) a particular financial institution or particular financial 
institutions.  
 (5) A financial institution which is required to provide information 
under a customer information order shall provide the information to a senior 
police officer in such manner, and at or by such time, as a  senior police officer 
requires.  
 (6) Where a financial institution on which a requirement is imposed 
by a notice given under a customer information order requires the production 
of evidence of authority to give the notice, it is not bound to comply with the 
requirement unless evidence of the authority has been produced to it.  
 (7) Where the High Court makes a customer information order under 
this section, the order need not be served on the person who is under 
investigation.  
 (8) For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this section limits any 
power under any enactment to obtain information referred to in this section or 
its provision on a voluntary basis.  
Meaning of customer information  
31S. (1) For the purposes of this Part, “customer information”, in relation 
to a person and a financial institution, is information whether the person holds, 
or has held, an account or accounts at the financial institution whether solely 
or jointly with another and information as to  
(a) the matters specified in subsection (2), if the person is an 
individual; and  
(b) the matters specified in subsection (3), if the person is a 
company or limited liability partnership or a similar body 
incorporated or otherwise established outside the Territory.  
 (2) The matters referred to in subsection (1)(a) are  
(a) the account number or numbers;  
(b) the person’s full name;  
(c) the person’s date of birth;  
 
16 
 
(d) the person’s most recent address and any previous addresses;  
(e) the date or dates on which that person began to hold the 
account or accounts and, if that person has ceased to hold the 
account or any of the accounts, the date or dates on which that 
person did so;  
(f) such evidence of that person’s identity as was obtained by the 
financial institution under or for the purposes of any 
legislation relating to proceeds of crime;  
(g) the full name, date of birth and most recent address, and any 
previous addresses, of any person who holds, or has held, an 
account at the financial institution jointly with that person; and  
(h) the account number or numbers of any other account or 
accounts held at the financial institution to which that person 
is a signatory and details of the person holding the other 
account or accounts.  
 (3) The matters referred to in subsection (1)(b) are 
(a) the account number or numbers;  
(b) the person’s full name;  
(c) a description of any business which the person carries on;  
(d) the country or territory in which the person is incorporated or 
otherwise established and any number assigned to it under the 
BVI Business Companies Act, Revised Edition 2020, or 
corresponding legislation of any country or territory outside 
the Territory;  
(e) the person’s registered office, and any previous registered 
offices, under the BVI Business Companies Act, Revised 
Edition 2020, or anything similar under corresponding 
legislation of any country or territory outside the Territory;  
(f) the person’s registered office, and any previous registered 
offices, under the Partnership Act, Revised Edition 2020, or 
anything similar under corresponding legislation of any 
country or territory outside the Territory;  
(g) the date or dates on which the person began to hold the 
account or accounts and, if it has ceased to hold the account 
or any of the accounts, the date or dates on which it did so;  
(h) such evidence of the person’s identity as was obtained by the 
financial institution under or for the purposes of any 
legislation relating to the proceeds of crime; and  
(i) the full name, date of birth and most recent address and any 
previous addresses of any person who is a signatory to the 
account or any of the accounts.  
 (4) The Cabinet, on the advice of the Financial Services Commission, 
may by order provide for information of description specified in the order to 
be customer information or no longer to be customer information.  
 
17 
 
 (5) For the purposes of this Part, “money laundering” is an act which  
(a) constitutes an offence to which this Act applies or any other 
offence under any other enactment similar or connected to the 
offences referred to in this paragraph; or  
(b) would constitute an offence specified or a type referred to in 
paragraph (a), if done in the Territory.  
Requirements for making of customer information order 
31T.  
The High Court may make a customer information order if it is 
satisfied that 
(a) in the case of a confiscation investigation, there are reasonable 
grounds for suspecting that the person specified in the 
application for the order has benefited from that person’s 
criminal conduct;  
(b) in the case of a civil recovery investigation, there are 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that  
(i) 
the property specified in the application for the order is 
recoverable property or associated property; and  
(ii) the person specified in the application holds all or some 
of the property;  
(c) in the case of a money laundering investigation, there are 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that the person specified in 
the application for the order has committed a money 
laundering offence;  
(d) in the case of any investigation, there are reasonable grounds 
for believing that customer information which may be 
provided in compliance with the order is likely to be of 
substantial value (whether or not by itself) to the investigation 
for the purposes of which the order is sought; and  
(e) in the case of any investigation, there are reasonable grounds 
for believing that it is in the public interest for the customer 
information to be provided, having regard to the benefit likely 
to accrue to the investigation if the information is obtained.  
Offences: failure to comply with customer information order  
31U. (1) A financial institution commits an offence if, without reasonable 
excuse, it fails to comply with a requirement imposed on it under a customer 
information order.  
 (2) A financial institution which commits an offence under subsection 
(1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.  
  (3) A financial institution commits an offence if, in purported 
compliance with a customer information order, it makes a statement which it 
knows to be false or misleading in a material particular.  
 
18 
 
  (4) A financial institution which commits an offence under subsection 
(3) is liable on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or on 
conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $50,000.  
Statements: customer information orders  
31V. (1) A statement made by a financial institution in response to a 
customer information order may not be used in evidence against it in criminal 
proceedings.  
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply 
(a) in the case of proceedings under Part 4 of this Act;  
(b) on a prosecution for an offence under section 31T (1) or (3); 
or  
(c) on a prosecution for some other offence where, in giving 
evidence, the financial institution makes a statement 
inconsistent with the statement mentioned in subsection (1).  
 (3) A statement may not be used by virtue of subsection (2)(c) against 
a financial institution unless evidence relating to it is adduced or a question 
relating to it is asked by or on behalf of the financial institution in the 
proceedings arising out of the prosecution.  
 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), a reference to Part 4 is a 
reference to the Part of this Act titled “ENFORCEMENT, ETC., OF 
CONFISCATION ORDERS”. 
Disclosure of information  
31W. 
A customer information order has effect notwithstanding any 
restriction on the disclosure of information however imposed.  
Supplementary: applications for customer information orders  
31X. (1) An application for a customer information order may be made ex 
parte to a Judge in Chambers.  
 (2) Rules of  court may provide for the practice and procedure to be 
followed in proceedings relating to customer information orders.  
 (3) An application to discharge or to vary a customer information 
order may be made to the High Court by the person who applied for the order 
or any person affected by the order.  
 (4) Upon the hearing of an application, the High Court may discharge 
or vary the order.  
 (5) Where a senior police officer or a customs officer authorised by 
the Commissioner of Customs applies for a customer information order, an 
application to discharge or vary the order does not have to be made by the 
same senior police officer or customs officer but that senior police officer or 
customs officer must be of the same rank or above; and references to a person 
who applied for a customer information order shall be construed accordingly.  
 (6) A police officer or a customs officer may not make an application 
for a customer information order or an application to vary such an order unless 
 
19 
 
that person is a senior police officer or a customs officer authorised to do so 
by the Commissioner of Customs.  
 
DIVISION 5 - ACCOUNT MONITORING ORDERS  
Account monitoring orders  
31Y. (1) The High Court may, on an application made to the High Court by 
a senior police officer, or customs officer authorised by the Commissioner of 
Customs, make an account monitoring order if the High Court is satisfied that 
each of the requirements set out in subsection (3) for the making of the order 
is fulfilled.  
 (2) An account monitoring order is an order that the financial 
institution specified in the application for the order shall, for the period stated 
in the order, provide account information of the description specified in the 
order to a senior police officer in the manner, and at or by the time or times, 
stated in the order.  
 (3) An application for an account monitoring order shall state that 
(a) a person specified in the application is subject to a confiscation 
investigation or a money laundering investigation; or  
(b) property specified in the application is subject to a civil 
recovery investigation and a person specified in the application 
appears to hold the property;  
(c) the order is sought for the purposes of the investigation; and  
(d) the order is sought against the financial institution specified in 
the application in relation to account information of the 
description so specified.  
 (4) Account information is information relating to an account or 
accounts held at the financial institution specified in the application by the 
person so specified whether held solely or jointly with another. 
 (5) An application for an account monitoring order may specify 
information relating to  
(a) all accounts held by the person specified in the application for 
the order at the financial institution so specified;  
(b) a particular description, or particular descriptions, of accounts 
so held; or 
(c) a particular account, or particular accounts, so held.  
 (6) The period stated in an account monitoring order shall not exceed 
the period of 90 days beginning with the day on which the order is made.  
 (7) For the purposes of this Division, the Minister may, by an Order 
published in the Gazette, provide for a class of persons to cease to be a 
financial institution for the purposes of this section.  
 (8) An institution which ceases to be a financial institution for the 
purposes of this section (whether by virtue of subsection (7) or otherwise) shall 
 
20 
 
continue to be treated as a financial institution for the purposes of any 
requirement under this section to provide information which relates to a time 
when the institution was a financial institution. 
Requirements for making of account monitoring order  
31Z.  
The High Court may make an account monitoring order if it is 
satisfied that 
(a) in the case of a confiscation investigation, there are reasonable 
grounds for suspecting that the person specified in the 
application for the order has benefited from that person’s 
criminal conduct;  
(b) in the case of a civil recovery investigation, there are 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that 
(i) 
the property specified in the application for the order is 
recoverable property or associated property; and  
(ii) the person specified in the application holds all or some 
of the property;  
(iii) in the case of a money laundering investigation, there are 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that the person 
specified in the application for the order has committed 
a money laundering offence;  
(c) in the case of any investigation, there are strong grounds for 
believing that account information which may be provided in 
compliance with the order is likely to be of substantial value 
(whether or not by itself) to the investigation for the purposes 
of which the order is sought; or  
(d) in the case of any investigation, there are strong grounds for 
believing that it is in the public interest for the account 
information to be provided, having regard to the benefit likely 
to accrue to the investigation if the information is obtained.  
Statements: account monitoring orders  
31AA. (1) A statement made by a financial institution in response to an 
account monitoring order may not be used in evidence against it in criminal 
proceedings.  
     (2) Subsection (1) does not apply 
(a) in the case of proceedings under Part 4; 
(b) in the case of proceedings where the financial institution has 
been convicted of an offence;  
(c) in the case of proceedings for contempt of court; or  
(d) on a prosecution for an offence where, in giving evidence, the 
financial institution makes a statement inconsistent with the 
statement mentioned in subsection (1). 
(3) 
 A statement may not be used by virtue of subsection (2)(c) against 
a financial institution unless evidence relating to it is adduced or a question 
 
21 
 
relating to it is asked by or on behalf of the financial institution in the 
proceedings arising out of the prosecution.  
(4) 
 For the purposes of subsection (2), a reference to Part 4 is a 
reference to the Part of this Act titled “ENFORCEMENT, ETC., OF 
CONFISCATION ORDERS”. 
Applications  
31AB. 
An application for an account monitoring order may be made ex 
parte to a Judge in Chambers.  
Disclosure of information  
31AC. 
An account monitoring order has effect notwithstanding any 
restriction on the disclosure of information however imposed.  
Supplementary: account monitoring orders  
31AD. (1) Provision may be made by rules of court for the practice and 
procedure to be followed in connection with proceedings relating to account 
monitoring orders.  
(2) An application to discharge or vary an account monitoring order 
may be made to the High Court by the person who applied for the order or any 
person affected by the order.  
(3) The High Court may vary or discharge an account monitoring 
order.  
(4) Where a senior police officer or a customs officer authorised by 
the Commissioner of Customs applies for an account monitoring order, an 
application to discharge or vary the order does not have to be made by the 
same senior police officer or customs officer but that officer must be of the 
same rank or above; and references to a person who applied for an account 
monitoring order shall be construed accordingly.  
 
DIVISION 6 - EVIDENCE OVERSEAS  
Evidence overseas  
31AE. (1) This section applies where there is an investigation concerning a 
matter arising under this Act and there is reason to believe that there may be 
evidence located outside of the Territory.  
   (2) The High court, on the application of the Director of Public 
Prosecutions or a person subject to the investigation. may issue a letter of 
request if the High Court thinks that there is evidence in a country or territory 
outside the Territory of the commission of a criminal offence, criminal 
conduct or unlawful conduct and that such person has benefited from that 
person’s criminal conduct or there is evidence of the extent or whereabouts of 
that person’s benefit from that person’s criminal offence, criminal conduct or 
unlawful conduct.  
 
22 
 
  (3) 
A letter of request is a letter requesting assistance from 
outside the Territory for such evidence as is specified in the letter for 
use in the investigation.  
  (4) 
If the Attorney General believes it is appropriate to do so 
the Attorney General may forward a letter received under subsection (2)  
(a) to the High Court or tribunal which is specified in the 
letter and which exercises jurisdiction in the place where 
the evidence is to be obtained; or  
(b) to an authority recognised by the Government of the 
country or territory concerned as the appropriate 
authority for receiving letters of request,  
but in a case of urgency the person issuing the letter of request may send 
it directly to the High Court or tribunal mentioned in paragraph (a).  
  (5) 
Evidence obtained in pursuance of a letter of request shall 
not be used by any person other than the Director of Public Prosecutions 
or a person subject to the investigation or for any purpose other than that 
for which it is obtained.  
  (6) 
Subsection (5) does not apply if the authority mentioned 
in subsection (4)(b) consents to the use.  
  (7) 
For the purposes of this section, evidence includes 
documents and other articles.  
  (8) 
Rules of court may provide for the practice and procedure 
to be followed in connection with proceedings relating to the issue of 
letters of request by the High Court under this section. 
Right to legal advice etc 
31AF.  A police officer or customs officer as the case may be, shall 
advise a person prior to that person being served with any order under 
this Part of that person’s right  
(a)  to remain silent; or  
(b)  to be advised, at that person’s own expense by a legal 
practitioner of that person’s choice.” 
Section 33A inserted 
11. The principal Act is amended by inserting after section 33, under the 
Part heading entitled “Miscellaneous Provisions”, the following section: 
“Assistance to foreign countries 
33A. (1) The competent authority shall, as soon as practicable, cooperate 
with the competent authority of another country on matters concerning 
money laundering offences, subject to this Act and the law of that country.  
   (2) The competent authority may, upon request by a court or other 
competent authority of another country, take steps to identify, trace, freeze, 
seize, or forfeit property, proceeds or instrumentalities connected to money 
laundering offences including 
 
23 
 
(a) laundered property originating from money laundering 
activities; 
(b) proceeds derived, directly or indirectly, from criminal 
conduct; 
(c) instrumentalities used or intended for use in money 
laundering, predicate offences, or terrorist financing; or 
(d) property of corresponding value linked to such activities,  
and shall act without undue delay on urgent requests. 
    (3) Without prejudice to subsection (2), the competent authority 
shall, where practicable, acknowledge and begin processing urgent requests 
within 24 hours or such other time specified in guidelines made under this 
Act in respect of the sharing of information and the cooperation with 
foreign law enforcement, prioritising cases involving transnational crime, 
terrorism financing, proliferation financing or serious financial crime. 
    (4) A final judicial order or judgment for the forfeiture of property, 
proceeds, or instrumentalities linked to money laundering offences, issued 
by  a court or other competent authority of another country, may be received 
in evidence and may be used as proof that the property, proceeds, or 
instrumentalities identified in the order or judgment may be subject to 
forfeiture under the laws of the Territory. 
    (5) The competent authority may provide assistance on a request 
by  a court or competent authority of another country in connection with a 
criminal investigation or prosecution for a money laundering offence, or 
other relevant offence, in that country. 
    (6) Assistance under this section may include providing original or 
certified copies of documents and records, including those of financial 
institutions and government agencies, provided that no information relating 
to a client account shall be disclosed unless the client is the subject of a 
criminal investigation related to money laundering. 
    (7) The Attorney General may, in response to a request from 
another country, assist in 
(a) obtaining testimony;  
(b) facilitating the presence or availability of persons, 
including those in custody, to give evidence;  
(c) locating or identifying persons;  
(d) serving documents;  
(e) conducting searches and seizures;  
(f) providing information and evidence; and  
(g) making provisional measures. 
    (8) 
The Attorney General or other designated authority, upon 
receipt of a request for mutual legal assistance under subsection (1), shall 
ensure that the appropriate measures are in place to respond to such requests 
promptly, including 
 
24 
 
(a) the use of electronic means to facilitate rapid 
communication and coordination between the relevant 
authorities and the requesting country; and 
(b) ensuring that mutual legal assistance is provided in a timely 
manner, subject to any limitations imposed by written law. 
    (9) The Attorney General or other designated authority may 
cooperate with the competent authority of another country if the law of that 
country provides reciprocal assistance not less favourable than that 
available under the laws of the Territory. 
(10) If a person refuses to provide information as required by 
subsection (5), the Attorney General may apply to the High Court for an 
order compelling the person to provide the information. 
(11) For the purposes of subsection (2), identifiable property includes 
(a) financial assets, funds, or other economic resources; and 
(b) tangible or intangible assets such as real estate, vehicles, 
vessels, or equivalent assets of value.”. 
Section 34B amended 
12. Section 34B of the principal Act is amended by repealing subsection (5) 
and substituting the following subsection: 
“(5)   A person who commits an offence under this section is liable 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 or to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or both; or 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $500,000 
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years or both.”. 
Sections 34C and 34D inserted 
13. The principal Act is amended by inserting after section 34B the following 
sections: 
“Actions prejudicing confiscation orders 
34C. (1) Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, where any 
person engages in a transaction, transfer, or other action involving property 
subject to confiscation under this Act, intending to frustrate, defeat or 
otherwise prejudice the Government’s ability to freeze, seize or recover the 
property, that transaction, transfer or action shall be voidable in accordance 
with the procedures set out in this section.  
(2)  The Director of Public Prosecutions or the Agency may apply to 
the High Court for an order to temporarily suspend or freeze any 
transaction, transfer or dealing involving property if it appears likely to 
frustrate confiscation proceedings.  
(3)  The High Court may issue an order under subsection (2) to 
remain effective until the conclusion of proceedings or further court order. 
 
25 
 
(4) Where property subject to a confiscation order has been 
transferred to a third party, it shall remain subject to confiscation if the High 
Court is satisfied that  
(a) the transfer was intended to frustrate recovery; and 
(b) the third party knew, or reasonably should have known, of 
the pending or likely confiscation at the time of transfer. 
(5) Upon notification by the Director of Public Prosecutions or the 
Agency that property is subject to confiscation, no person shall dispose of, 
transfer, or otherwise diminish the value of the property in a way that could 
prejudice the Government’s ability to seize, freeze, or recover the property. 
(6) Any action in violation of subsection (5) shall be voidable by the 
High Court upon application by the Director of Public Prosecutions or the 
Agency. 
(7) The Director of Public Prosecutions or the Agency may apply to 
the High Court for an order requiring any person in possession of 
information relevant to a transaction under this section to disclose such 
information.  
(8) A person who fails to comply with a disclosure order under 
subsection (6) is liable to the penalties for non-disclosure as prescribed by 
this Act. 
Contravention of restraint order 
34D. (1)  A person or any director of a legal person who knowingly 
contravenes a restraint order by disposing of or otherwise dealing with 
property that is subject to the restraint order commits an offence and is 
liable upon conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding 15 years or to a fine or both; or if the person is a legal person to 
a fine not exceeding $1,500,000.  
   (2)  Where a restraint order is made against a property and the 
property is disposed of or otherwise dealt with in contravention of the 
restraint order, and the disposition was for insufficient consideration or the 
purchaser did not act in good faith, the prosecutor may apply to the High 
Court for an order that the disposition or dealing be set aside.”. 
Section 35A repealed 
14. The principal Act is amended by repealing section 35A. 
 
Passed by the House of Assembly this 28th day of February, 2025. 
 
 
(Sgd.) Corine N. George-Massicote, 
Speaker. 
 
 
(Sgd.) Bethsaida Smith-Hanley, 
Clerk of the House of Assembly. 
