LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
3
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS 
 
REGULATION
1. 
Short title 
2. 
Interpretation 
3. 
General requirements 
 
4. 
Identification procedures in relation to new and continuing business 
relationships 
 
5. 
Establishing and maintaining verification procedures 
 
6. 
Exceptions to identification procedures 
 
7. 
Reliance on third parties 
 
7A. 
Third party business relationship agreement 
 
7B. 
Obligation to test business relationship  
 
8. 
Establishing and maintaining record of verification of identity 
 
9. 
Maintaining record of transactions and reports 
 
10. 
Limitation period for retention of records 
 
11. 
Format and retrieval of records 
 
12. 
Maintaining register of money laundering reports and inquiries 
 
13. 
Duty to appoint Money Laundering Reporting Officer 
 
14. 
Due diligence audit 
 
15. 
Establishment of procedures in relation to suspicious transactions 
 
16. 
Staff training 
 
17. 
Offences and penalties 
18.  
Revocation 
 
 
SCHEDULE: Transitional Provisions 
 
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
5
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING REGULATIONS – SECTION 41
(S.I.s 12/2008, 20/2010, 36/2012, 74/2015, 19/2018 and 86/2019)
Commencement 
[22 February 2008] 
Short title 
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Anti-money Laundering Regulations. 
Interpretation 
2. (1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires— 
“Agency” means the Financial Investigation Agency established under section 3 of the 
Financial Investigation Agency Act; 
“applicant for business” means the party proposing to a relevant person in the Virgin 
Islands that they enter into a business relationship or one-off transaction; 
(Substituted by S.I. 20/2010) 
“beneficial owner” means the natural person who ultimately owns or controls an 
applicant for business or a customer or on whose behalf a transaction or activity 
is being conducted and includes, though not restricted to— 
(a) in the case of a legal person other than a company whose securities are 
listed on a recognised stock exchange, a natural person who ultimately 
owns or controls, whether directly or indirectly, ten or more per cent of 
the shares or voting rights in the legal person; 
(b) in the case of a legal person, a natural person who otherwise exercises 
control over the management of the legal person; and  
(c) in the case of a legal arrangement— 
 (i) the partner or partners who control the partnership; 
 (ii) the trustee or other person who controls the applicant for business 
or customer; or 
 (iii) the settlor or other person by whom the legal arrangement is made; 
(Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
“business relationship” means an arrangement between a relevant person and one or 
more parties, where— 
(a) the relevant person has obtained satisfactory evidence of identity of the 
party who, in relation to the formation of that business relationship, was 
the applicant for business; 
(b) the relevant person engages in business with the other party on a 
frequent, habitual or regular basis; and 
(c) the monetary value of dealings in the course of the arrangement is not 
known or capable of being known at entry; 
“CFATF” means the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force of which the Virgin Islands 
is a member; 
“cash” includes coins and any type of bearer negotiable or other monetary instrument 
and any postal orders; 
6
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
“Code” means the Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice; 
“Commission” means the Financial Services Commission established under section 3(1) 
of the Financial Services Commission Act; 
“customer” means a party that has entered into a business relationship or one-off 
transaction with a relevant person; (Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
“customer due diligence” refers to the steps required to be taken by a relevant person in 
his dealings with an applicant for business or a customer in relation to a business 
relationship or one-off transaction in order to forestall and prevent money 
laundering and other financial crimes; (Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
“FATF” means the Financial Action Task Force; (Inserted by S.I. 20/2010)
foreign regulatory authority” means an authority in a jurisdiction outside the Virgin 
Islands which exercises in that jurisdiction regulatory, supervisory or monitoring 
functions that substantially correspond to the regulatory, supervisory or 
monitoring functions of the Agency or Commission; (Substituted by S.I. 
74/2015) 
“foreign regulated person” means a person that— 
(a) is incorporated, registered, licensed or formed, or if it is not a body 
corporate, has its principal place of business, in a jurisdiction outside 
the Virgin Islands; 
(b) carries on business outside the Virgin Islands that, if carried on within 
the Virgin Islands, would fall within a category of business specified in 
paragraphs (a) to (e) of the definition of “relevant business”; and 
(c) in respect of the business referred to in paragraph (b)— 
 (i) is subject to legal requirements in its jurisdiction for the detection 
and prevention of money laundering that are consistent with the 
requirements of the FATF Recommendations in relation to that 
business; and 
 (ii) is properly and adequately regulated, supervised or monitored for 
compliance with those legal requirements by a foreign regulatory 
authority; 
(Amended by S.I. 74/2015) 
“Money Laundering Reporting Officer” means the person appointed under regulation
13(1) by a relevant person; 
“one-off transaction” means a transaction that constitutes relevant business and which is 
carried out other than in the course of an established business relationship; 
“regulated person” means a person who is licensed or registered to carry on a relevant 
business in or from within the Virgin Islands; (Amended by S.I. 20/2010) 
“relevant business” means— 
(a) banking business or trust business within the meaning of the Banks and 
Trust Companies Act; 
(b) insurance business within the meaning of the Insurance Act; 
(c) the business of company management within the meaning of the 
Company Management Act; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
7
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
(d) investment business or business as a mutual fund or a private investment 
fund within the meaning of the Securities and Investment Business Act, 
2010; (Substituted by S.I. 19/2018 and amended by S.I. 86/2019) 
(e) without prejudice to paragraphs (a) and (c), the business of acting as a 
trust or company service provider for the purpose of providing any of 
the following services to a third party— 
 (i) acting as a formation agent of legal persons; 
 (ii) acting (or arranging for another person to act) as a director or 
secretary of a company, a partner of a partnership, or a similar 
position in relation to other legal persons; 
 (iii) providing a registered office, business address or accommodation, 
correspondence or administrative address for a company, 
partnership or any other legal person or arrangement; 
 (iv) acting (or arranging for another person to act) as a trustee of a trust; 
 (v) acting (or arranging for another person to act) as a nominee 
shareholder for another person; 
(f) the business of providing remittance service of Telegraphic Money 
Order under the Post Office (Telegraph Money Order) Rules, 1934 or 
money order under the Post Office Rules, 1976; 
(g) financing business or money services business within the meaning of the 
Financing and Money Services Act, 2009; (Substituted by S.I. 19/2018) 
(h) the business of— 
 (i) providing advice on capital structure, industrial strategy and related 
matters, and advice and services relating to mergers and the 
purchase of undertakings; 
 (ii) money broking; 
 (iii) the safe keeping and administration of securities; or 
 (iv) lending or financial leasing; 
(i) the provision of services to clients by legal practitioners, notaries public 
or accountants which involve transactions concerning any of the 
following activities— 
 (i) buying and selling of real estate; 
 (ii) managing of client money, securities or other assets; 
 (iii) management of bank, savings or securities accounts; 
 (iv) organization of contributions for the creation, operation or 
management of companies; and 
 (v) creation, operation 
or management 
of 
legal 
persons 
or 
arrangements, or buying and selling of business entities; 
(j) the business of acting as a real estate agent when engaged in a 
transaction for a client concerning the buying and selling of real estate; 
8
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(k) the business of dealing in precious metals or precious stones when such 
transaction involves accepting a cash payment of $15,000 or more or the 
equivalent in any other currency; 
(l) the business of operating a casino (where permitted by law) when a 
transaction involves accepting a cash payment of $3,000 or more or the 
equivalent in any other currency; 
“relevant person” means a person carrying on relevant business; and 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee of the Financial Investigation 
Agency established under section 3(3) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 
2003. 
 (2) Subsection (1)(i) does not apply to legal practitioners, notaries public or 
accountants who are employed by the Government or any statutory body. 
 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(k) and (l), a transaction of or above the 
threshold designated in that subsection shall be construed to include situations where the 
transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations that appear to be 
linked. 
 (4) For the purposes of these Regulations— 
(a) a business relationship formed by a relevant person is an established 
business relationship where that person has obtained satisfactory 
evidence of the identity of the person who, in relation to the formation 
of that business relationship, was the applicant for business; 
(b) the question as to what constitutes satisfactory evidence of identity shall 
be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Code; 
(c) a staff is a key staff if he or she is an employee of a relevant person who 
deals with customers or clients and their transactions. (Substituted by 
S.I. 20/2010) 
General requirements 
3. (1) In conducting relevant business, a relevant person shall not form a business 
relationship or carry out a one-off transaction with or for another person unless the 
relevant person— 
(a) maintains— 
 (i) identification procedures in accordance with regulations 4, 5 and 7; 
 (ii) record keeping procedures in accordance with regulations 8 to 11; 
 (iii) internal reporting procedures in accordance with regulation 15; and 
 (iv) internal controls and communication procedures which are 
appropriate for the purposes of forestalling and preventing money 
laundering; 
(b) takes appropriate measures from time to time for the purpose of making 
employees aware of— 
 (i) the procedures maintained under paragraph (a) and any related 
procedures provided in the Code; and 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
9
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 (ii) the provisions of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, the Code, 
these Regulations and any directive issued pursuant to any 
enactment; and 
(c) provides training for employees to assist them— 
 (i)  in the recognition and handling of transactions carried out by, or on 
behalf of, any person who is, or appears to be, engaged in money 
laundering; and 
 (ii) in dealing with customers where such transactions have been 
reported to the Steering Committee or the Agency in accordance 
with the provisions of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 (2) The procedures, measures and training requirements outlined in 
subregulation (1) shall be construed to include any similar or additional procedures, 
measures and training requirements provided under the Code. 
 (3) Identification procedures, record keeping procedures, internal reporting 
procedures and internal controls and communication procedures required to be 
maintained under subregulation (1)(a) shall be submitted— 
(a) in the case of a relevant person that is regulated by the Commission, for 
the approval of the Commissin; and 
(b) in the case of a relevant person that is not regulated by the Commission, 
for the approval of the Agency. 
(Substituted by S.I. 19/2018) 
 (4) The Commission or the Agency may keep, for its own use, copies of 
documents submitted under sub-regulation (3). (Inserted by S.I. 19/2018) 
Identification procedures in relation to new and continuing business relationships 
4. (1) A relevant person shall establish and maintain identification procedures 
which, as soon as reasonably practicable after contact is first made between that person 
and an applicant for business concerning any particular business relationship or one-off 
transaction require— 
(a) the production by the applicant for business, satisfactory evidence of his 
or her identity; or 
(b) the taking by the relevant person of such measures as are specified in the 
identification procedures as will produce satisfactory evidence of the 
identity of the applicant for business. 
 (2) The identification procedures established pursuant to subregulation (1) shall 
also— 
(a) require that where satisfactory evidence of identity is not obtained by 
the relevant person, the business relationship or one-off transaction shall 
not proceed any further until such evidence is obtained, unless and to 
the extent that the Agency advises otherwise; 
(b) require that where the business relationship or one-off transaction 
subsists, the applicant for business appears to be acting for a third party 
in respect of that business relationship, the satisfactory evidence of the 
identity of the third party will be obtained, failing which the business 
relationship will be terminated; 
10
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) include the full name (including any other names and aliases) and 
physical address of the applicant for business and, where he or she is 
acting for a third party, the full name (including any other names and 
aliases) and physical address of the third party; 
(d) provide for the assessment by the relevant person of the risk that any 
business relationship or one-off transaction may involve money 
laundering and shall be appropriate to the circumstances, having regard 
to the degree of risk assessed; and 
(e) take into account, without limiting paragraph (d), the greater risk of 
money laundering which arises when the applicant for business is not 
engaged in a face-to-face relationship or transaction as to be identified. 
 (3) For the purposes of this regulation, but without prejudice to regulation 
2(4)(b), satisfactory evidence of identity is evidence which is reasonably capable of 
establishing, and to the satisfaction of the person who obtains the evidence, does 
establish, that the applicant for business is the person he or she claims to be. 
Establishing and maintaining verification procedures 
5. (1) A relevant person shall establish and maintain procedures which, in respect 
of transactions undertaken after a business relationship has been established in 
compliance with regulation 4, require— 
(a) the satisfactory verification of evidence of identity produced pursuant to 
regulation 4(1)(a); or 
(b) the taking of such measures as are specified in the procedures as will 
produce satisfactory verification of evidence of identity produced under 
regulation 4(1)(b), 
as soon as reasonably practicable after transactions are undertaken. 
 (2) The procedures established pursuant to subregulation (1) shall also require 
that when satisfactory verification of evidence of identity is not obtained or produced, 
the business relationship and transactions shall not proceed any further. 
 (3) The provisions of the Code with respect to the verification of evidence of 
identity shall apply for the purposes of these Regulations. 
Exceptions to identification procedures 
6. (1) Where a person carrying on relevant business assesses an applicant for 
business to be of low risk and verifies that the applicant for business is—  
(a) a regulated person; 
(b) a foreign regulated person; or 
(c) a legal practitioner, notary public or an accountant who belongs to a 
professional body whose rules of conduct or practice embody legal 
requirements for the detection and prevention of money laundering that 
are consistent with the requirements of the FATF Recommendations 
and the legal practitioner, notary public or accountant is regulated, 
supervised or monitored by his or her professional body for compliance 
with those requirements, 
the person carrying on relevant business is not required to obtain and verify the identity 
of the applicant for business. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
11
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
(Substituted by S.I. 74/2015) 
 (2) Sub-regulation (1) does not apply where the person handling the transaction 
on behalf of the person carrying on relevant business to whom the application for 
business is made— 
(a) knows or suspects that the applicant is engaged in money laundering or 
other activity which presents a high risk; or
(b) has reasonable grounds to doubt the veracity or adequacy of previously 
obtained customer due diligence information in respect of the applicant 
for business. 
(Substituted by S.I. 74/2015) 
 (2A) In assessing whether an applicant for business is of normal or low risk for 
the purposes of subregulation (1), the person carrying on relevant business shall have 
regard to the provisions of the Code. (Inserted by S.I. 20/2010) 
 (3) A person carrying on relevant business is, in relation to a one-off transaction, 
not required to obtain evidence of the identity of an applicant for business where the 
amount to be paid by or to the applicant for business is less than $10,000 or the 
equivalent amount in another currency, unless— 
(a) the person carrying on the relevant business has reasonable grounds for 
believing (whether at the beginning or subsequently), that— 
 (i) the transaction is linked to one or more other transactions; and 
 (ii) the total amount to be paid by or to the applicant for business in 
respect of all the linked transactions is $10,000 or more; or 
(b) any person handling the transaction on behalf of the person carrying on 
relevant business knows or suspects that the transaction involves money 
laundering. 
Reliance on third parties  
7. (1) Subject to this regulation and regulations 7A and 7B, a relevant person may 
rely on introduction of an applicant for business by a third party if the relevant person is 
satisfied that the third party has taken measures to— 
(a) obtain and verify the identity of the applicant for business using reliable, 
independent source documents, data or information; 
(b) obtain and verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the applicant for 
business, such that the relevant person is satisfied that it (the relevant 
person) knows who the beneficial owner is;  
(c) understand, where the applicant for business is a body corporate, the 
ownership and control structure of the body corporate; and 
(d) understand and, where appropriate, obtain information on the purpose 
and intended nature of the business relationship.  
 (2) Where a relevant person relies on the introduction of an applicant for 
business by a third party, the relevant person shall— 
(a) satisfy itself that the third party is— 
 (i) a regulated person; 
 (ii) a foreign regulated person; or 
12
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(iii) a member of a professional body— 
(aa) whose rules of conduct or practice embody legal requirements 
for the detection and prevention of money laundering consistent 
with the FATF Recommendations generally; and  
(bb) who, in relation to customer due diligence and record keeping 
procedures specifically, is regulated, supervised or monitored by 
that body for compliance with those requirements;  
(b) immediately upon the introduction, obtain from the third party the 
information or data required under sub-regulation (1), but this does not 
require the relevant person to obtain at the same time from the third 
party a copy of any document or a record of the information or data 
referred to in that sub-regulation; 
(c) take adequate steps to ensure that copies of all identification and 
verification data and other relevant documentation held or maintained 
by the third party will be made available by the third party upon request 
without delay;
(d) ensure that the third party has in place procedures to establish and 
maintain identification of applicants for business and update 
identification information based on the risk profile of the applicants for 
business. 
 (3) Where a relevant person wishes to rely on an introduction by a third party 
from a country or territory that is listed in Schedule 2 of the Code, it shall nevertheless 
have regard to information that is available on the level of the country’s or territory’s 
risk. 
 (4) A relevant person shall not rely on an introduction by a third party in 
circumstances where the third party is relying on another third party or other third parties 
to conduct and maintain information on the customer due diligence of an applicant for 
business (multi-level or tiered introduction). 
 (5) Subject to sub-regulation (7), identification procedures established and 
maintained pursuant to sub-regulation (2)(d) and the obligation outlined in sub-
regulation (3) shall not apply where the relevant person and the third party are part of the 
same group and that group— 
(a) applies at the group level customer due diligence and record keeping 
requirements and programmes against money laundering that are at least 
equivalent to those specified in these Regulations and the Code; and 
(b) is regulated, supervised or monitored for compliance with those 
requirements and programmes by a foreign regulated authority or other 
equivalent body with responsibility for regulating, supervising or 
monitoring compliance with such requirements and programmes.  
 (6) In sub-regulation (5), the term “group”, in relation to a body corporate, 
means that body corporate, any other body corporate which is its holding company or 
subsidiary and any other body corporate which is a subsidiary of that holding company, 
and “holding company” and “subsidiary” shall be construed in accordance with section 2 
(2) to (6) of the Banks and Trusts Companies Act, 1990. 
 (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, the relevant person 
has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that it has obtained and verified the identity 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
13
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
of an applicant for business and that it knows the beneficial owner of the applicant for 
business. 
 (8) For purposes of sub-regulation (2)(b) with respect to business relationships 
between a relevant person and a third party that were in existence before the coming into 
force of these Regulations, the transitional provisions outlined in the Schedule shall 
apply. 
(Substituted by S.I. 74/2015) 
Third party business relationship agreement 
7A. (1) A relevant person shall, before entering into a business relationship with a 
third party in respect of the introduction and acceptance of applicants for business, enter 
into a written agreement with the third party to comply with the requirements of 
regulation 7(1) and (2) and the conditions stipulated in the Code. 
 
(2) The written agreement shall be valid in respect of every applicant for 
business that is introduced by the third party and with whom the relevant person has 
developed a business relationship, and the period of validity of the agreement shall— 
(a) extend to at least five years or for the duration of the business 
relationship, whichever is longer; and 
(b) remain valid for a period of at least five years from the date of 
termination of the business relationship between the relevant person and 
the applicant for business. 
 
(3) Sub-regulation (2) does not apply where the written agreement between the 
relevant person and the third party has been terminated, but— 
(a) the obligations contained in the agreement, including the customer due 
diligence information maintained by the third party, are transferred to 
another third party who has— 
 (i) agreed to be bound by the written agreement in relation to the 
relevant person; or 
 (ii) entered into another written agreement with the relevant person 
comprising at least the same obligations contained in the 
agreement; or  
(b) all the customer due diligence information maintained by the third party 
has been transferred to the relevant person to maintain. 
 
(4) The Agency, Commission or any other competent authority in the Virgin 
Islands may request a copy of any written agreement entered into by a relevant person 
pursuant to this regulation and the relevant person shall comply with that request. 
 
(5) Upon the date of the coming into force of these Regulations, a relevant 
person shall, in relation to every customer, modify any existing agreement, or enter into 
a new agreement, with a third party to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 
regulation. 
(Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
Obligation to test business relationship 
7B. (1) Subject to sub-regulation (2), the relevant person shall test its business 
relationship with the third party by carrying out a periodic review of the customer due 
diligence measures of the third party to satisfy itself that— 
14
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) the requirements of regulation 7(1) are being complied with; and  
(b) the terms and conditions of the written agreement entered into pursuant 
to regulation 7A are being adhered to. 
 
(2) The periodic review referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Code. 
(Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
Establishing and maintaining record of verification of identity 
8. Where a relevant person is required under these Regulations to verify the identity 
of a person, the relevant person shall establish and maintain a record in the Virgin 
Islands which— 
(a) indicates the nature of the evidence obtained; and 
(b) comprises a copy of the evidence or, where this is not reasonably 
practicable, contains such information as would enable a copy of the 
evidence to be obtained. 
Maintaining record of transactions and reports 
9. Where a relevant person is required under these Regulations to verify the identity 
of a person, the relevant person shall maintain a record of— 
(a) all transactions carried out by or on behalf of that person (such as 
records sufficient to identify the source and recipient of payments from 
which investigating authorities will be able to compile an audit trail for 
suspected money laundering); and 
(b) all reports made by it to the Agency and all inquiries relating to money 
laundering received by it from the Agency. 
Limitation period for retention of records 
10. (1) A relevant person shall maintain the records required under regulations 7, 8 
and 9 for a period of at least 5 years from the date— 
(a) when all transactions relating to a one-off transaction or a series of 
linked transactions were completed; or 
(b) when the business relationship was formally ended. 
(Amended by S.I. 20/2010) 
 (2) Where a report has been made to the Anti-money Laundering Reporting 
Officer appointed under regulation 13 or the relevant person knows or believes that a 
matter is under investigation, that person shall, without prejudice to subregulation (1) or 
the requirements of the Code relating to the retention of records, retain all relevant 
records for as long as may be required by the Agency. 
 (3) For the purposes of this regulation, the question as to what records may be 
relevant in the investigation process may be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of the Code. 
Format and retrieval of records 
11. (1) A relevant person shall ensure that any records required to be maintained 
pursuant to these Regulations are capable of retrieval without undue delay and in the 
manner provided in the Code. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
15
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
(2) A relevant person may rely on the records of a third party in respect of the 
details of payments and transactions by customers, provided that it is satisfied that the 
third party is willing and able to retain and, if asked, to produce in the manner provided 
in the Code, copies of the records required. 
Maintaining register of money laundering reports and inquiries 
12. (1) A relevant person shall maintain a register of— 
(a) all reports made by it to the Agency; and 
(b) all inquiries relating to money laundering made of it by the Agency. 
 (2) The register maintained pursuant to subregulation (1) shall be kept separate 
from other records and shall contain as a minimum— 
(a) the date and nature of the report or inquiry; 
(b) the name and agency of the inquiring officer; 
(c) the powers being exercised and pursuant to what authority; and 
(d) details of the accounts or transactions involved. 
Duty to appoint Money Laundering Reporting Officer 
13. (1) A relevant person shall appoint a Money Laundering Reporting Officer who 
shall, in addition to the qualifications set out in subregulation (2), be of sufficient 
seniority to perform the functions reposed on a Money Laundering Reporting Officer 
under the Code and these Regulations. (Amended by S.I. 20/2010) 
(1A) A person who is appointed as a Money Laundering Reporting Officer 
shall— 
(a) be a natural person; and 
(b) have access to all relevant information and material of the relevant 
person to enable him or her to perform the functions reposed in him or 
her under the Code and these Regulations. 
(Inserted by S.I. 20/2010) 
(1B) A relevant person shall, within 14 days of appointing a Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer, notify the Agency and the Commission in writing of that fact 
specifying the date of his or her appointment, and this requirement shall apply in every 
new appointment of a Money Laundering Reporting Officer. (Inserted by S.I. 20/2010)
(1C) The appointment of a Money Laundering Reporting Officer under 
subregulation (1) may relate to an individual who— 
(a) is an employee of the relevant person; 
(b) is not an employee of the relevant person, but who is resident in the 
Virgin Islands and meets the requirements of this regulation to perform 
the functions of a Money Laundering Reporting Officer; or 
(c) may or may not be an employee of the relevant person, but who meets 
the requirements of this regulation and is resident in a jurisdiction that is 
recognised pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
(Inserted by S.I. 20/2010)
 (2) In order to be appointed as a Money Laundering Reporting Officer, a person 
shall possess the following qualifications— 
16
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) he or she must at the minimum hold a diploma with a post qualification 
experience of not less than 3 years; 
(b) he or she must be fit and proper; 
(c) he or she must have a broad knowledge of anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing matters, including the relevant regional and 
international treaties (including United Nations Resolutions) relating to 
the combating of money laundering and terrorist financing; 
(d) he or she must have a good appreciation and understanding of Virgin 
Islands laws relating to money laundering and terrorist financing; and 
(e) he or she must possess the ability to make independent and analytical 
decisions and not be easily susceptible to undue influence. 
 (3) A Money Laundering Reporting Officer shall be responsible for ensuring 
compliance by staff of the relevant person with— 
(a) the provisions of these Regulations, Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 
the Code and any other enactment relating to money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 
(b) the provisions of any internal reporting and manual of compliance 
procedures relating to money laundering and terrorist financing; and 
(c) any additional reporting and related obligations provided in the Code. 
 (4) The Money Laundering Reporting Officer shall, in addition to the functions 
reposed in him or her by these Regulations and the Code, act as the liaison between the 
relevant person and the Agency in matters relating to compliance with the provisions of 
these Regulations, the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, the Code and any other 
enactment relating to money laundering and terrorist financing. 
Due diligence audit 
14. (1) Without prejudice to regulation 13 or any other enactment relating to the 
conduct of inspections to verify compliance, the Agency or a person designated by the 
Agency in writing may conduct an inspection of a relevant person to determine 
compliance by that person with the requirements of these Regulations, Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act, the Code and any other enactment or directive relating to money 
laundering. 
 (2) The Agency may, for purposes of these Regulations and the Code, issue such 
directives as it considers necessary and the directives, when issued, shall, unless 
considered by the Agency to be of a restricted and confidential nature, be published in 
the Gazette. 
Establishment of procedures in relation to suspicious transactions 
15. A relevant person shall establish written internal reporting procedures which, in 
relation to its relevant business, will— 
(a) enable its directors, or as the case may be, partners, all other persons 
involved in its management, and all key staff, to know to whom they 
should report knowledge or suspicion of money laundering; 
(b) ensure that there is a clear reporting chain under which suspicions of 
money laundering will be passed to the Money Laundering Reporting 
Officer; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
17
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
(c) ensure that the Money Laundering Reporting Officer has reasonable 
access to all relevant information which may be of assistance to him or 
her and which is available to the relevant person; and 
(d) ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Code. 
Staff training 
16. (1) A relevant person shall provide education and training for all of its directors 
or, as the case may be, partners, all other persons involved in its management, and all 
key staff, to ensure that they are aware of— 
(a) the provisions of these Regulations, Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 
the Code and any other enactment relating to money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 
(b) the relevant regional and international conventions, United Nations 
Security Council Resolutions and standards of compliance established 
from time to time by the CFATF, FATF and other organizations of 
which the Virgin Islands is a member or in which the Virgin Islands 
holds associate or observer status, relating to money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 
(c) their personal and the relevant person’s obligations under the 
enactments and instruments referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b); 
(d) the manual of compliance procedures or internal control systems and 
other requirements established pursuant to these Regulations and the 
Code; 
(e) their personal liability for failure to report information or suspicions in 
accordance with the requirements of these Regulations, the Code and 
any other enactment, including any established internal procedures. 
 (2) A relevant person shall, in addition, provide training— 
(a) to all of the persons referred to in subregulation (1) with respect to— 
 (i) ensuring compliance with regulation 3(1)(c); 
 (ii) its policies and procedures to detect and prevent money laundering 
and terrorist financing; and 
 (iii) its customer identification, record keeping and other procedures; 
and 
(b) in accordance with the requirements of this regulation and the Code to 
all new key staff as soon as practicable after their appointment. 
 (3) A relevant person shall provide the training requirements referred to in 
subregulations (1) and (2) on such frequent basis as it may determine, but in any case at 
least once every year. 
Offences and penalties 
17. (1) A person who contravenes any provision of these Regulations or any 
directive issued pursuant to regulation 14(2), commits an offence. (Amended by S.I. 
74/2015) 
 (2) A person who commits an offence under subregulation (1) is liable— 
18
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $100,000; and 
(Amended by S.I.s 20/2010 and 36/2012) 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $150,000. 
(Amended by S.I. 36/2012) 
 (3) In proceedings against a person for an offence under these Regulations, it 
shall be a defence for the person to prove that he or she took all reasonable steps and 
exercised due diligence to comply with the requirements of these Regulations or any 
directive issued pursuant to regulation 14(2) in respect of which he or she is charged. 
 (4) Where an offence under these Regulations has been committed by a body 
corporate, section 22(2) of the Interpretation Act shall apply, except that the words “the 
liability of whose members is limited” shall be omitted. 
 (5) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its members, 
subregulation (3) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of a member in connection 
with his or her functions of management as if he or she were a director of the body 
corporate. 
 (6) Where an offence under these Regulations is committed by a partnership, or 
by an unincorporated association other than a partnership, is proved to have been 
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to the failure to exercise 
due diligence by, a partner in the partnership or, as the case may be, a person concerned 
in the management or control of the association, he or she, as well as the partnership or 
association, commit that offence and is liable to be proceeded against and punished 
accordingly. 
 (7) A person who contravenes any provision of these Regulations may be 
proceeded against under section 56 of the Financial Services Commission Act instead of 
under this regulation. (Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
 (8) The imposition of a penalty under or pursuant to this regulation does not 
absolve the person penalized from complying with the provision of these Regulations 
that he or she has contravened. (Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
Revocation 
18. The Anti-Money Laundering Code of Practice, 1999 is revoked. (Inserted by S.I. 
20/2010)  
____________ 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 
(Regulation 7(8)) 
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
Application  
1. These transitional provisions apply to every relevant person who, at the date of 
the coming into force of these Regulations, has a business relationship with an applicant 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
19
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
for business or a customer who had been the subject of an introduction to the relevant 
person by a third party. 
Compliance with regulation 7 (1) 
2. Every relevant person shall, upon the coming into force of these Regulations, 
take adequate measures to obtain from the third party, with respect to each applicant for 
business or customer with whom the relevant person has a business relationship, the 
information outlined in regulation 7(1). 
Period for compliance  
3. (1) Subject to any extension of time under paragraph 4, the requirement outlined 
in paragraph 2 must be complied with on or before 31st December, 2016 (“the 
compliance date”).  
 (2) For purposes of establishing whether or not relevant persons are complying 
with the requirement of paragraph 2, the Commission may, before the compliance date 
and within such period as the Commission may determine— 
(a) require relevant persons to prepare and submit returns, in such form as 
the Commission may approve, outlining their level of compliance with 
the requirement of paragraph 2; and  
(b) make inquiries and conduct such investigations as it considers 
appropriate to establish whether and to what extent relevant persons are 
carrying out the requirement of paragraph 2.  
 (3) Subject to sub-paragraph (4), any inquiry or investigation to be carried out 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(b) shall be carried out in such form and manner, including 
the conduct of an inspection, as the Commission may determine.  
 (4) Where the Commission intends to carry out an inspection of a relevant 
person for purposes of sub-paragraph (2)(b), it shall provide the relevant person at least 
seven days written notice of its intention.  
Extension of compliance date  
4. (1) Where, at any time prior to the compliance date referred to in paragraph 
3(1), the Commission (after making necessary inquiries and conducting necessary 
investigations under paragraph 3(2)) forms the opinion that a relevant person has made 
sufficient progress in complying with the requirement of paragraph 2 but, having regard 
to the number of applicants for business or customers with which the relevant person has 
a business relationship, or such other factors as the Commission deems relevant, the 
relevant person may not be able to obtain the required information in respect of every 
applicant for business or customer by the compliance date, the Commission may grant 
the relevant person an extension of such period as the Commission considers would 
enable the relevant person to obtain the required information. 
 (2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), a relevant person shall be considered 
to have made sufficient progress in complying with the requirement of paragraph 2 if it 
has been able to obtain the required information in respect of at least— 
(a) fifty percent of its applicants for business or customers, if any inquiry or 
investigation of the relevant person was carried out within 7 months of 
the compliance date; or 
20
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) seventy-five percent of its applicants for business, if any inquiry or 
investigation of the relevant person was carried out within 10 months of 
the compliance date.  
Consequence of non-compliance  
5. If a relevant person fails to comply with the requirement of paragraph 2 by the 
compliance date or, if granted an extension under paragraph 4, within the period of 
extension, it is liable to be proceeded against under regulation 17. 
(Inserted by S.I. 74/2015) 
__________
