 
1 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST FINANCING 
(AMENDMENT) CODE OF PRACTICE, 2023 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
SECTION 
 
1. 
Citation and commencement 
 
2. 
Section 2 amended 
 
3. 
Section 4 amended 
 
4. 
Section 4A amended 
 
5. 
Section 9 amended 
 
6. 
Section 11 amended  
 
7. 
Section 12 amended 
 
8. 
Section 13 amended 
 
9. 
Section 16 amended  
 
10. 
Section 17 amended 
 
11. 
Section 18 amended 
 
12. 
Section 19 amended 
 
13. 
Section 20 amended 
 
14. 
Explanation to section 21 amended  
 
15. 
Section 22 amended  
 
16. 
Section 23 amended 
 
17. 
Section 24 amended 
 
18. 
Section 25 amended 
 
19. 
New section 25A inserted 
 
20. 
Section 28 amended 
 
21. 
New section 28A inserted 
 
22. 
Section 31A amended 
 
23. 
Section 41B amended 
 
24. 
Section 41C amended 
 
25. 
Section 46 amended  
 
26. 
Section 53A amended  
 
27. 
New section 53B inserted  
 
28. 
Section 57 amended  
 
29. 
Schedule 4 amended  
 
 
2 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
STATUTORY INSTRUMENT 2023 NO. 23 
PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT ACT 
(REVISED EDITION 2020) 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Code of 
Practice, 2023 
 
[Gazetted 16th March, 2023] 
 
The Financial Services Commission, pursuant to the powers conferred by section 
27(1) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, Revised Edition 2020 and after 
consultation with the Joint Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Advisory Committee, amends the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist 
Financing Code of Practice, Revised Edition 2020: 
Citation and commencement 
1.  (1) This Code may be cited as the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist 
Financing (Amendment) Code of Practice, 2023. 
 
(2) This Code shall come into force on the 17th day of March, 2023. 
Section 2 amended 
2. Section 2 of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of 
Practice, Revised Edition 2020, (hereinafter referred to as “the principal Code of 
Practice”) is amended 
(a) in the definition of “Agency”, by deleting the words “section 3” 
and substituting the words “section 3(1)”;  
(b)  in the definition of “control”, by deleting the words “without any 
ownership interest” and substituting the words “with or without 
any ownership interest”; and 
(c) in the definition of “high risk countries”, in paragraph (d), by 
inserting a comma, after the words “anti-money laundering”. 
 
Section 4 amended 
 
 
3. Section 4(1) of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (1) 
(a) in paragraph (a), by deleting the word “and”;  
(b) in paragraph (b), by deleting the full-stop and substituting the word 
“; and”; and  
(c) by inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraph 
 
3 
 
 
“(c) every person that acts as a trustee in the Virgin Islands, in 
relation to section 28A only.”.  
The Explanation to section 4 of the principal Code of Practice is 
amended in paragraph (iv), by deleting the words “pursuant to section 
23(2D) of this Code” and substituting the words “pursuant to section 
23(2C) of this Code.” 
Section 4A amended 
4. Section 4A of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (7), by deleting the words “a charity or other 
association not for profit” and substituting the words “an NPO”; 
and  
(b) by deleting subsection (8) and substituting the following subsection 
“(8) Schedule 1 provides best practices for NPOs, and 
every NPO shall govern its activities utilising those best practices, 
in addition to complying with the other requirements of this Code 
applicable to it.”. 
 
Section 9 amended 
5. Section 9 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (5), by 
deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting the 
words “the Act”.  
Section 11 amended 
6. Section 11 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection 
(3A)(a), by inserting after the words “those internal controls”, the words “and 
enhance such controls as necessary”.  
Section 12 amended 
7. Section 12 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (2), by 
inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraph 
“(ba) take into account any higher money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing risks that may be 
identified by a national risk assessment and any risk 
assessment conducted by a competent authority, law 
enforcement agency or any other authority with responsibility 
relating to money laundering, terrorist financing  and 
proliferation financing;” 
The Explanation to section 12 of the principal Code of Practice is 
amended in paragraph (ii) by deleting the words “identify the areas 
that should be proritised to combat ML/TF” and substituting the 
words “identify the areas that should be prioritised to combat 
ML/TF”. 
 
 
 
4 
 
Section 13 amended 
8. Section 13 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (4), by 
deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting the 
words “the Act”. 
Section 16 amended  
9. Section 16 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (1), by 
deleting the word “regulations” and substituting the word “Regulations”. 
Section 17 amended 
10. Section 17 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (2), 
by deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting 
the words “the Act”.  
Section 18 amended 
11. Section 18 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (7)(b), 
by deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting 
the words “the Act”.  
Section 19 amended 
12. Section 19 of the principal Code of Practice is amended,  
(a) in subsection 3(b), by inserting after the word “to”, the words 
“understand and”;  
(b) in subsection (4),  
 
(i) 
by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following 
paragraph 
 
 
“(b) when effecting a one-off transaction that involves funds 
of $15,000 or above, including where the transaction is 
carried out in a single operation or in several operations 
that appear to be linked, or such lower threshold as the 
entity or professional may establish”;  
 
(ii) in paragraph (ba), by inserting after the words “valued at or 
above $1,000”, the words “including where the transaction is 
carried out in a single operation or in several operations that 
appear to be linked”;  
 
(iii) in paragraph (bb), by deleting the words “involving funds of 
or above $3,000 or  the equivalent in any other currency” and 
substituting the words “of $3,000 or above or the equivalent in 
any other currency including where the transaction is carried 
out in a single operation or in several operations that appear to 
be linked”; and  
 
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (bb), the following new paragraph 
 
 
“(bc) when effecting a one-off transaction that is a wire 
transfer involving funds of $1,000 or above, including 
where the transaction is carried out in a single operation 
 
5 
 
or in several operations that appear to be linked or such 
lower threshold as the entity or professional may 
establish;”;  
(c) in subsection (7), by inserting at the end of the subsection before 
the full-stop, the words “commensurate with the lower risk factors 
identified”; and  
(d) in subsection (9)(b), by deleting the words “section 18(1)” and 
substituting the words “section 17(1)”.   
Section 20 amended  
13. Section 20 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (6), 
by inserting after the words “legal person”, the words “or legal arrangement”.  
Explanation to section 21 amended  
14. The Explanation to section 21 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
in paragraph (xiii), by inserting after the words “at least once annually”, the words 
“and remaining customers within a 4-year cycle, prioritised based on the level of 
risk posed”. 
Section 22 amended  
15. Section 22 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (1B), 
by inserting after the words “as if the domestic politically exposed person”, the 
words “or international organisation politically exposed person”.  
Section 23 amended 
16. Section 23 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
(a) in subsection (2), by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the 
following paragraph 
“(a) the verification is completed as soon as reasonably 
practicable;”; 
(b) by deleting subsection (2A); and  
(c) in subsection (7), by deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act” and substituting the words “the Act”.   
The Explanation to section 23 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
in paragraph (iii), by inserting before the figure “28”, the word “Section”. 
Section 24 amended 
17. Section 24 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in section (7), by 
deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting the 
words “the Act”. 
Section 25 amended  
18. Section 25 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (2)  
(a) in paragraph (a) 
 
6 
 
 
(i) 
in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the word “obtain”, 
the words “proof of existence of the legal person and”;  
 
(ii) in subparagraph (iii), by inserting after the words “of the legal 
person”, the words “and the legal form of the legal person”;   
 
(iii) in subparagraph (viii), by deleting the word “and” at the end 
of the paragraph;  
(b) by deleting the full-stop at the end of paragraph (b)(iii), and 
substituting the words “; and”; and  
(c) by inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraph 
“(c) understand the nature of the legal person’s business and its 
ownership and control structure.”. 
New section 25A inserted  
19. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting immediately after 
section 25, the following new section  
“Disclosure of nominator or other person 
25A. (1) This section applies to an entity or professional that provides, or 
arranges for another to provide, director or nominee shareholder services. 
 
(2) Where an entity or a professional acts as a director of a legal 
person, and accepts instruction from another person in relation to the 
directorship, the entity or professional shall inform the legal person of that fact 
and disclose to the legal person the identity of the person from whom it accepts 
instruction.  
 
(3) Where an entity or a professional acts as nominee shareholder of a 
legal person, the entity or professional shall inform the legal person of that fact 
and disclose the identity of its nominator to the legal person.   
 
(4) The disclosure of identity required under subsections (2) and (3) 
shall include the full name, gender, principal residential address and date of 
birth of the applicable person.”.      
Section 28 amended 
20. Section 28 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (1) 
(a) in paragraph (a) 
 
(i) 
in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the word 
“obtaining”, the words “proof of existence of the trust and”;  
 
(ii) in subparagraph (i), by inserting after the words “the name”, 
the words “and legal form”; and  
 
(iii) in subparagraph (vi), by deleting the word “and” at the end of 
the subparagraph;  
(b) by deleting the full-stop at the end of paragraph (b)(ii), and 
substituting the words “; and”; and  
(c) by inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraph 
 
7 
 
“(c) understanding the nature of the trust’s business and its 
ownership and control structure.”. 
The Explanation to section 28 of the Code of Practice is amended in 
paragraph (ii), by deleting the words “in subsection 1(a) above” and 
substituting the words “in subsection (1) above”.  
New section 28A inserted 
21. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting immediately after 
section 28, the following new section  
“Trustees  
28A. (1) A trustee, including a trustee that is an entity or a professional, 
when acting on behalf of a trust, shall disclose his or her status as a trustee to 
an entity or professional when establishing a business relationship or carrying 
out a one-off transaction with that entity or professional, on behalf of the trust 
for which he or she acts as trustee.   
 
(2) A trustee shall obtain and maintain information on the beneficial 
owners of a trust for which he or she acts as trustee. 
 
(3) A trustee shall obtain the name and address of any regulated agent 
of, and service provider to, the trust, including any investment advisor or 
manager, accountant and tax advisor.   
 
(4) A trustee shall keep any information required to be kept under this 
section  
(a) accurate and up to date; and  
 
 
(b) update such information on a timely basis. 
 
(5) A trustee shall maintain information obtained in subsections (2), 
(3) and (4) for at least 5 years after his or her involvement with the trust ceases.   
 
(6) A trustee that does not obtain or maintain information in 
accordance with subsections (2), (3), (4) or (5) commits an offence and is liable 
to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Act. 
 
(7) In this section, a reference to “trustee”, as the context requires, 
means a trustee that is not an entity or a professional.”.   
Section 31A amended 
22. Section 31A of the principal Code of Practice is amended, by revoking 
subsection (5).  
Section 41B amended 
23. Section 41B of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (2), 
by deleting the words “which is sent” and substituting the words “which are sent”. 
Section 41C amended 
24. Section 41C of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
 
8 
 
(a) in subsection (7), by deleting the words “A beneficiary virtual asset 
service provider” and substituting the words “An originating 
virtual asset service provider” ; and  
(b) in subsection (8), by deleting the words “a beneficiary virtual asset 
service provider” and substituting the words “an originating virtual 
asset service provider”.  
Section 46 amended 
25. Section 46 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (1)(d), 
by deleting the words “recognised pursuant to section 52” and substituting the 
words “not a high risk country and is not determined to pose a higher risk based 
on the entity’s or professional’s risk assessment”. 
Section 53A amended 
26. Section 53A of the principal Code of Practice is amended,  
(a) by redesignating the existing provision as subsection (1);  
(b) in subsection (1) as redesignated, in paragraph (c), by inserting 
after the words “for AML/CFT purposes”, the words “, including 
information and analysis of transactions or activities which appear 
unusual, if such analysis was done”; and  
(c) by inserting after subsection (1) as redesignated, the following new 
subsections 
“(2) Information and analysis of transactions or activities 
which appear unusual, as required to be provided under subsection 
(1)(c) shall include suspicious transaction reports, along with their 
underlying information, and the fact that suspicious transaction 
reports have been filed.   
(3) 
Branches and subsidiaries of a financial group shall 
receive information provided under subsection (1)(c), where 
relevant and appropriate, for the management of money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing risk.”. 
New section 53B inserted  
27. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting immediately after 
section 53A, the following new section  
“Money services business and agents 
 53B. (1) An entity or a professional that carries on money services business 
through agents shall  
(a) include agents in its AML/CFT compliance programme; and  
(b) monitor the compliance of agents with its AML/CFT 
compliance programme. 
(2) An entity or a professional that fails to comply with the 
requirements of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded 
against under section 27(4) of the Act. 
 
9 
 
(3) In this section, reference to “agent” means a branch, representative 
office or contact office, or any other person providing money services business 
on behalf of the entity or professional, for which prior approval must be sought 
in accordance with section 16 of the Financing and Money Service Act, Revised 
Edition, 2020.”. 
Section 57 amended  
28. Section 57 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (3), 
by inserting after the words “the Commission”, the words “or the Agency,”.   
Schedule 4 amended  
29. Schedule 4 of the principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting in the 
appropriate numerical order, the following 
41A (b) 
Failure to file a 
suspicious transaction 
report in country 
affected by suspicious 
transfer of funds 
$80,000 
$70,000 
41C (1) and (3) 
Failure to obtain, 
maintain and submit 
complete originator and 
beneficiary information 
with transfer of virtual 
assets, or to verify 
complete originator 
information 
$80,000 
$75,000 
41C (9) 
Failure to keep complete 
originator information 
and complete 
beneficiary information  
$100,000 
$80,000 
41E (2) and (4)  
Failure to keep 
information on 
originator and 
beneficiary that 
accompanies a transfer 
of virtual assets, or 
provide information on 
originator or beneficiary 
accompanying the 
transfer of virtual assets 
within the specified time 
period 
$80,000 
$75,000 
41F(b)  
Failure to file a 
suspicious transaction 
report in country 
affected by suspicious 
transfer of virtual assets 
$80,000 
$70,000 
 
 
10 
 
 
Issued by the Financial Services Commission this 15th  day of March, 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      (Sgd.) Kenneth Baker 
Managing Director/CEO 
Financial Services Commission 
