LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
21
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST 
FINANCING CODE OF PRACTICE 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
PRELIMINARY 
SECTION
1. 
Citation 
2. 
Interpretation 
3. 
Objectives 
4. 
General application and exception 
 
4A. 
Application to charities, etc. 
 
5. 
Compliance with this Code 
 
PART I
DUTIES OF THE AGENCY AND THE COMMISSION
6. 
Financial Investigation Agency
7. 
Duties of the Agency on receipt of a report 
 
8. 
Financial Services Commission 
 
9. 
Proportionate inspection actions 
 
10. 
Training of Agency and Commission staff 
 
PART II
ESTABLISHING INTERNAL SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS
11. 
Requirement to establish an internal control system 
11A. 
Prohibition of misuse of technological developments 
 
12. 
Duty to carry out risk assessment 
 
13. 
Roles and duties of an entity and a professional 
 
14. 
Responsibilities of senior management 
 
15. 
Responsibilities of an employee 
 
16. 
Reporting Officer 
 
17. 
Duty of Reporting Officer to make a report to the Agency 
 
18. 
Reporting a suspicion 
 
PART III
EFFECTING CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE MEASURES
19. 
Requirements of customer due diligence 
 
20. 
Requirements of enhanced customer due diligence 
 
21. 
Updating customer due diligence information 
 
22. 
Politically exposed persons 
 
23. 
General verification 
Anti-Money Laundering and
22
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
24. 
Verification of individual 
 
25. 
Verification of legal person 
 
26. 
Where a legal person assessed as low risk 
 
27. 
Verification in respect of underlying principals 
 
28. 
Verification of trust 
 
29. 
Non-face to face business relationship 
 
30. 
Requirement for certified documentation 
 
31. 
Reliance on third parties 
 31A. 
Contents of written agreements 
 31B. 
Testing business relationships 
 
32. 
Requirements post-verification 
 
PART IV 
SHELL BANKS AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING RELATIONSHIPS
 
33. 
Definitions for this Part 
 
34. 
Prohibition against shell banks, etc. 
 
35. 
Restrictions on correspondent banking 
 
36. 
Payable through accounts 
 
PART V
WIRE TRANSFERS
 
37. 
Definitions for and application of this Part 
 
38. 
Exemptions 
 
39. 
Payment service provider of payer 
 
40. 
Payment service provider of payee 
 
41. 
Intermediary payment service provider 
 
PART VI 
RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS 
 
42. 
Compliance with record keeping measures 
 
43. 
Due diligence and identity records 
 
44. 
Transaction records 
 
45. 
Minimum retention period of records 
 
46. 
Restriction on outsourcing 
 
PART VII
EMPLOYEE TRAINING 
 
47. 
General training requirements 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
23
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
48. 
Frequency, delivery and focus of training 
49. 
Vetting employees
PART VIII 
MISCELLANEOUS
50. 
Information exchange between public authorities
 
51. 
Information exchange with private sector 
 
52. 
Recognised foreign jurisdictions 
 
53. 
Obligations of foreign branches, subsidiaries, etc. 
 
54. 
Application of counter-measures 
55. 
Form of report 
 
56. 
Guidance on types of suspicious activities or transactions 
 
57. 
Offences and penalties 
 
58. 
Revocation  
 
 
SCHEDULE 1: Best Practices for Charities and other Associations not for  
  
 
 
Profit 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2: Recognised Jurisdictions 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3: Types of Suspicious Activities or Transactions  
 
 
SCHEDULE 4: Offences and Administrative Penalties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
25
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST 
FINANCING CODE OF PRACTICE – SECTION 27(1)
(S.I.s 13/2008, 4/2009, 42/2009, 46/2010, 86/2010, 22/2012, 37/2012,  
75/2015, 4/2017, 20/2018 and 36/2018) 
 
Commencement
[22 February 2008] 
PRELIMINARY
Citation 
1. This Code of Practice may be cited as the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist 
Financing Code of Practice. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation 
(i) 
This Code is issued pursuant to section 27(1) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct 
and as such assumes the form of subsidiary legislation. Under subsection (2) of that 
section, the Code is required to be published in the Gazette and be subjected to a 
negative resolution of the House of Assembly. This Code is issued by the Commission 
and comes into force on the same date the Anti-money Laundering Regulations is 
brought into operation. Once gazetted, the Code is required to be laid before the House 
of Assembly (and thus subject to a negative resolution) in accordance with the 
requirements of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. The Code remains in force until 
it is annulled by the House of Assembly within a period of forty days following its laying 
before the House of Assembly; if no resolution is brought to annul the Code, it continues 
in force until revoked or replaced. 
(ii) As a subsidiary legislation, this Code has the force of law and is enforceable 
against any person (natural or legal) to whom it applies.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Interpretation 
2. (1) In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires— 
“Act” means the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act; 
“Agency” means the Financial Investigation Agency established under section 3 of the 
Financial Investigation Agency Act, 2003; 
“applicant for business” means the party proposing to a Virgin Islands entity that they 
enter into a business relationship or one-off transaction; 
“beneficial owner” means the natural person who ultimately owns or controls an 
applicant for business or a customer or on whose behalf a transaction or activity 
is being conducted and includes, though not restricted to—
(a) in the case of a legal person other than a company whose securities are 
listed on a recognised stock exchange, a natural person who ultimately 
Anti-Money Laundering and
26
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
owns or controls, whether directly or indirectly, ten or more per cent of 
the shares or voting rights in the legal person; 
(b) in the case of a legal person, a natural person who otherwise exercises 
control over the management of the legal person; and (Amended by S.I. 
75/2015) 
(c) in the case of a legal arrangement—
 (i) the partner or partners who control the partnership; 
 (ii) the trustee or other person who controls the applicant for business 
or customer; and 
 (iii) the settlor or other person by whom the legal arrangement is made; 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009 and amended by S.I. 75/2015) 
“business relationship” means a continuing arrangement between an entity or a 
professional and one or more parties, where—
(a) the entity or a professional has obtained, under procedures maintained in 
accordance with this Code, satisfactory evidence of identity of the 
person who in relation to the formation of that business relationship, 
was the applicant for business; 
(b) the entity or a professional engages in business with the other party on a 
frequent, habitual or regular basis; and 
(c) the monetary value of dealings in the course of the arrangement is not 
known or capable of being known at entry; 
“Commission” means the Financial Services Commission established under section 3(1) 
of the Financial Services Commission Act; 
“customer” means a party that has entered into a business relationship or one-off 
transaction with a relevant person; (Inserted by S.I. 75/2015) 
“entity” means—
(a) a person that is engaged in a relevant business within the meaning of 
regulation 2(1) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and, for the 
avoidance of doubt, it includes a person that is regulated by the 
Commission by virtue of any regulatory legislation provided in Part 1 of 
Schedule 2 of the Financial Services Commission Act; or 
(b) a non-financial business designated by the Commission in the Non-
financial Business (Designation) Notice; 
“FATF” means the Financial Action Task Force; (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
“high risk countries” means countries which—
(a) are subject to sanctions, embargos or similar restrictive measures 
imposed by the United Nations, European Union, or other regional or 
international organisation of which the Virgin Islands is a member or 
associate member, or of which the United Kingdom is a member and the 
sanctions, embargos or similar measures have been extended to the 
Virgin Islands by an Order in Council or through the exercise of any 
Royal Prerogative; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
27
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(b) satisfy any of the risk qualifications outlined in this Code; 
(c) the Commission identifies and provides in a list published in the Gazette
as representing high risk countries; or 
(d) the Commission identifies in an advisory or a warning issued pursuant 
to the Financial Services Commission Act or section 52(5) as not 
meeting or fully meeting or of weaknesses in the FATF anti-money 
laundering or anti-terrorist financing obligations or as engaging in or 
promoting activities that are considered detrimental to the interests of 
the public in the Virgin Islands; (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
“key staff” or “key employee” means an employee of an entity or a professional who 
deals with customers or clients and their transactions; 
“non-account holding customer” means a customer with whom a bank undertakes 
transactions though the customer does not hold an account with the bank; 
“non-paying account” means an account or investment product which does not 
provide— 
(a) cheque or other money transmission facilities; 
(b) a facility for the transfer of funds to other types of account which do not 
provide that facility; or 
(c) a facility for repayment or transfer to a person other than the applicant 
for business on closure or maturity of the account, the realisation or 
maturity of the investment or otherwise; 
“one-off transaction” means a transaction carried out other than in the course of an 
established business relationship; 
“politically exposed person” or “PEP” means an individual who is or has been entrusted 
with prominent public functions and members of his or her immediate family, or 
persons who are known to be close associates of such individuals and, for the 
purposes of this definition, the Explanations to section 22 shall serve as a guide 
in identifying a PEP; 
“professional” means a person, not otherwise functioning as a body corporate, 
partnership or other similar body, who engages in a relevant business within the 
meaning of regulation 2(1) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations or 
engages in a business that is designated as a non-financial business by the 
Commission in the Non-financial Business (Designation) Notice; 
“Reporting Officer” means the person appointed as Anti-money Laundering Reporting 
Officer pursuant to regulation 13 of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations; 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee of the Financial Investigation 
Agency established under section 3(3) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 
2003; 
“termination” means—
(a) the conclusion of a relationship between an entity or a professional and 
a customer or client signified by the closing of an account or the 
completion of the last transaction; 
(b) the maturity or earlier termination of an insurance policy; or 
Anti-Money Laundering and
28
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) with respect to a one-off transaction, the completion of that one-off 
transaction or the completion of the last in a series of linked transactions 
or the maturity, claim or cancellation; 
“underlying beneficial owner” includes any—
(a) person on whose instruction the signatory of an account, or any 
intermediary instructing the signatory, is for the time being accustomed 
to act; and 
(b) any individual who ultimately owns or controls the customer on whose 
behalf a transaction or activity is being conducted. 
 (2) The Explanations provided under any of the sections do not represent legal 
interpretations of the sections concerned, but are provided merely to serve as a guide and 
to afford clarity in better understanding the sections and the overall requirements of or 
obligations under the FATF Recommendations, the Anti-money Laundering Regulations  
and this Code. 
 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a court or the Agency or Commission may, 
in dealing with any matter under or in relation to this Code, have regard to the 
Explanations provided in this Code. 
 (4) Any reference in this Code to a conduct or an activity includes, unless the 
context otherwise requires, an attempt in relation to the conduct or activity. (Inserted by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
 (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code, the ultimate responsibility 
for complying with the requirements or prohibitions of this Code rests with the entity to 
which the Code applies. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
Objectives 
3. The objectives of this Code are— 
(a) to outline the relevant requirements of the Drug Trafficking Offences 
Act, Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act and Financial Investigation 
Agency Act, with respect to the detection and prevention of money 
laundering; 
(b) to ensure that every entity and professional puts in place appropriate 
systems and controls to detect and prevent money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 
(c) to provide guidance to every entity and professional in interpreting, 
understanding and appropriately applying the requirements of the Anti-
money Laundering Regulations and this Code; 
(d) to assist every entity and professional in developing necessary measures 
to ensure—
 (i) the adoption of adequate screening procedures and processes with 
respect to employees; 
 (ii) the appropriate training of employees; and 
 (iii) the fitness and appropriateness of the professionals and of the 
management of an entity; and 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
29
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(e) to promote the use of an appropriate and proportionate risk-based 
approach to the detection and prevention of money laundering and 
terrorist financing, especially in relation to ensuring—
 (i) adequate customer due diligence; 
(ii) that measures adopted to effectively deal with such activities are 
commensurate with the risks identified; and 
(iii) a more efficient and effective use of resources to minimise burdens 
on customers. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The Virgin Islands is a key player in the provision of financial services (domestic 
and international) and as such it bears some responsibility in ensuring compliance with 
internationally established standards of regulation and enforcement relating to the 
detection and prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. 
As a member of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF), the Territory is 
required to fully comply with the requirements of the 40 + 9 Recommendations of the 
Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The Territory is also a member of key 
organisations – International Organisation of Securities Commission (IOSCO), 
International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), Offshore Group of Banking 
Supervisors (OGBS) and Egmont – which have established sector specific benchmarks 
relative to anti-money laundering measures in the areas of securities and investment, 
insurance, banking and intelligence gathering and dissemination. In addition, the 
Territory fully observes all of the established standards designed to effectively combat 
acts of terrorism and the financing of terrorist activities. 
(ii) The Virgin Islands has in place a robust legislative and administrative regime on 
anti-money laundering and terrorist financing which is subjected to periodic reviews by 
the CFATF and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Essentially the regime aims at 
criminalising money laundering and terrorist financing, establishing effective 
international cooperation in cross-border crime and abuse of the financial market, 
enabling the targeting and confiscation of the proceeds of criminal conduct (including 
drug trafficking), establishing an appropriate mechanism for the reporting of suspicious 
money laundering and terrorist financing activities, empowering the judicial and 
administrative authorities to effectively apply the established Rules of compliance and 
enforcement, creating dissuasive and proportionate penalties for acts of money 
laundering and terrorist financing and providing a mechanism for public education on 
matters concerning money laundering and terrorist financing. 
(iii) The objectives of the Code are to bring about a greater understanding and 
appreciation of the current legal, regulatory and enforcement regimes with respect to 
compliance with anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures. They aim to 
assist persons in the law enforcement and regulatory and non-regulatory specific sectors 
of the economy to develop and implement systems that effectively combat activities 
designed to abuse the legitimate tools of business transactions through criminal 
conduct. Full compliance with the Code, along with all the other relevant anti-money 
laundering and terrorist financing legislation in place, can only result in upholding 
business reputation and the overall reputation of the Territory: a firm’s good name is 
only as good as its reputation, for without that reputation the name means very little (if 
anything at all). 
Anti-Money Laundering and
30
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(iv) Accordingly, the objectives set out in this Code outline the Territory’s commitment 
to good corporate governance and the promotion of international cooperation to ensure 
financial stability. The provisions of the Code may be viewed as setting down minimum 
standards of compliance; those who are affected by the Code should feel free to adopt 
such additional measures as they consider relevant and prudent to prevent their 
businesses from being caught up in unsuspecting acts of money laundering and terrorist 
financing. The Code, in effect, supplements the provisions of the Drug Trafficking 
Offences Act, (DTOA), Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act (PCCA), Financial 
Investigation Agency Act, (FIAA), The Terrorism (United Nations and Other Measures 
(Overseas Territories) Order 2001 (“the 2001 Order”), The Anti-terrorism (Financial 
and Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order 2002 (“the 2002 Order”) and Anti-
money Laundering Regulations (AMLR).] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
General application and exception 
4. (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Code applies to— 
(a) every entity and professional; and 
(b) a charity or other non-profit making institution, association or 
organization to the extent specified in section 4A. 
 (2) The identification and verification requirements set out in Part III of this 
Code do not apply in circumstances where regulation 6(1) or (3) of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations applies to an entity. 
 (3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), no exception provided in the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations and this Code shall apply where an entity or a professional 
knows or suspects that an applicant for business or a customer is engaged in money 
laundering or terrorist financing. 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Section 27(2) of the PCCA outlines the scope of the Commission’s exercise of its 
powers to issue a Code of Practice. The definition of “entity” in section 2 essentially 
covers the scope permitted by section 27(2) of the PCCA as fully outlined in the AMLR. 
The application section seeks to implement FATF Recommendation 12. The regulated 
entities and non-regulated entities within the defined parameters of FATF 
Recommendation 12 are viewed as forming vital links in the anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) efforts. The PCCA empowers the 
Commission to designate other businesses which are considered vulnerable to activities 
of money laundering and terrorist financing and thus fall within the definition of 
“entity”. These have been designated in the Non-financial Business (Designation) 
Notice which lists additional businesses that fall within the regime of the Code. The 
Notice may be amended from time to time to ensure a well-insulated business sector 
against the activities of money laundering and terrorist financing, having regard, in 
particular, to the risks posed. 
(ii) Any entity and professional that is caught under this section of the Code must 
ensure full compliance with the due diligence, record keeping measures and other 
requirements outlined in this Code. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
31
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(iii) Section 4(2) takes into account the exceptions to identification procedures outlined 
in regulation 6(1) and (3) of the Anti-money Money Laundering Regulations with 
respect to the conduct of relevant business (as defined in regulation 2(1) of the 
regulations). It should be understood that the rationale for the exceptions is that 
identification and verification information relative to a regulated person and foreign 
regulated person that is an applicant for business is normally kept and maintained and 
such information is available to be accessed should the Agency or the Commission 
request it, whether through the exercise of its statutory powers or through the mutual 
legal assistance request regime. The same principle applies in relation to legal 
practitioners and accountants who are members of professional bodies whose Rules of 
conduct or practice embody requirements for AML/CFT compliance to the standards of 
the FATF Recommendations and who are supervised for compliance with those 
requirements. It would be expected that such professional bodies would maintain as a 
matter of routine relevant identification and verification information relating to their 
members. 
(iv) However, it must be borne in mind at all times that the burden of ensuring 
compliance with the obligations set out in this Code rests with the relevant entity or 
professional as outlined in section 2(5). Accordingly, where an entity or a professional 
knows or suspects that an applicant for business or a customer who wishes to form a 
business relationship is engaged in money laundering or terrorist financing, it or he or 
she must not establish the business relationship. Regulation 6(2) and (3)(b) of the AMLR 
already provides for such a prohibition in relation to money laundering. It would be 
incumbent under such circumstances for the entity or professional to submit a report to 
the Agency outlining its suspicion.] 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
Application to charities, etc. 
4A. 
(1) The provisions of this Code relating to the establishment of internal control 
systems, effecting customer due diligence measures, maintaining record keeping 
requirements and providing employee training shall apply to every charity or other 
association not for profit which— 
(a) is established and carries on its business in or from within the Virgin 
Islands; 
(b) is established outside the Virgin Islands and registered to carry on its 
business wholly or partly in or from within the Virgin Islands; or 
(c) is established as provided in paragraph (a) and receives or makes 
payments, other than salaries, wages, pensions and gratuities, in excess 
of $10,000 in a year. 
 (2) A charity or other association not for profit shall— 
(a) comply with the provisions outlined in subsection (1) in relation to 
every donor to the charity or other association not for profit of monies 
or equivalent assets in excess of $10,000; 
(b) maintain relevant documentation with respect to its administrative, 
managerial and policy control measures in relation to its operations; 
(c) ensure that any funds that are planned and advertised by or on behalf of 
the charity or other association not for profit are verified as having been 
planned and spent in the manner indicated; and 
Anti-Money Laundering and
32
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(d) adopt such measure as are considered appropriate to ensure that any 
funds or other assets that are received, maintained or transferred by or 
through the charity or other association not for profit are not for, or 
diverted to support— 
 (i) the activities of any terrorist, terrorist organization or other 
organized criminal group; or 
 (ii) any money laundering activity. 
 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), where a series of donations from a single 
donor appear to be linked and cumulatively the donations are in excess of $10,000 in any 
particular year, the requirements outlined in subsection (1) shall apply. 
 (4) Subsection (1)(c) does not apply where payment is made for goods or 
services the total of which do not in any particular year exceed $25,000 or its equivalent 
in any currency.
 (5) Where a person who makes a donation (whether in cash or otherwise in 
excess of the amount or its equivalent stipulated in this section) does not wish to have 
his or her name publicly revealed, the charity or other association not for profit that 
receives the donation shall nevertheless carry out the requisite customer due diligence 
and record keeping measures under this Code, including— 
(a) establishing the nature and purpose of the donation; 
(b) identifying whether or not there are any conditions attached to the 
donation and, if so, what those conditions are; 
(c) identifying the true source of the donation and whether or not the 
donation is commensurate with the donor’s known sources of funds or 
wealth; 
(d) establishing whether or not the funds or other properties that are the 
subject of the donation are located in a high risk country; and 
(e) establishing that the donor is not placed on any United Nations, 
European Union or other similar institution’s list of persons who are 
linked to terrorist financing or against whom a ban, sanction or embargo 
subsists. 
 (6) Where a charity or other association not for profit suspects that a donation 
may be linked to money laundering or terrorist financing, it shall— 
(a) not accept the donation; and 
(b) report its suspicion to the Agency. 
 (7) For the purposes of the application of the Parts of this Code outlined in 
subsection (1) to a charity or other association not for profit, the relevant provisions shall 
be applied with such modifications as are necessary to ensure compliance with the 
requirements of the provisions. 
 (8) Schedule 1 provides best practices for charities and other associations not for 
profit and every charity and other association not for profit shall govern its activities 
utilizing those best practices, in addition to complying with the other requirements of 
this Code. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
33
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
[Explanation:
(i) 
As noted in section 4, this Code equally applies to charities and other non-profit 
making institutions, associations and organizations as if they were entities. Charities 
and other similar institutions are not immune to abuse for money laundering and 
terrorist financing activities and must accordingly adopt all necessary due diligence 
measures outlined in this Code to ensure compliance therewith. It is expected that in 
applying the provisions of this Code to a charity or other similar institution, those 
provisions of the Code will be applied with such necessary modification as would enable 
proper compliance with the provisions. Where there is uncertainty, advice must be 
sought from the Agency and such advice complied with accordingly. Ultimately, the 
responsibility for full compliance with the requirements of this Code rests with the 
charity or other similar institution (as already noted in section 2(5)). 
(ii) Every charity or other association not for profit should expect that the laws, 
policies and guidelines relating to their activities and operations would be reviewed 
from time to time to verify compliance with the obligations outlined in this Code and 
ensure that they are not being used for money laundering and terrorist financing 
purposes. It is therefore important that every charity or other association not for profit 
brings to the attention of the Agency any activity with respect to which it has a suspicion 
of money laundering or terrorist financing. This would enable the Agency to guide and 
assist the charity or other association not for profit from being used for money 
laundering and/or terrorist financing purposes.] 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Compliance with this Code 
5. (1) Every entity and professional is required to fully comply with this Code 
which provides the minimum requirements in relation to the compliance obligations 
relating to money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 (2) An entity or a professional may adopt such higher standards and systems of 
internal controls as it or he or she considers commensurate with its or his or her risk-
based methodology in order to reduce or mitigate identified money laundering or 
terrorist financing risks. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation:
It should be noted that the imperatives outlined in this Code must be fully complied with 
by every entity and professional. The Code itself must be viewed as setting minimum 
standards of compliance. The particular circumstances of an entity or a professional or 
the nature of the business concerned may require the taking of additional measures 
beyond those prescribed in this Code in order to reduce or mitigate risks that may be 
associated with money laundering or terrorist activity. This is a matter left entirely to 
the wisdom of every individual entity or professional. However, where any additional 
standards or systems of internal control are adopted, these must be appropriately 
documented and made available when required during an inspection or otherwise in 
pursuance of the provisions or objectives of this Code.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Anti-Money Laundering and
34
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART I 
DUTIES OF THE AGENCY AND THE COMMISSION
Financial Investigation Agency 
6. (1) The Financial Investigation Agency is the reporting authority of the Virgin 
Islands and acts through the guidance and direction of the Steering Committee in matters 
relating to suspicious activity reports concerning money laundering and terrorist 
financing.
 (2) The Agency is required to keep a record of reports received by it. 
 (3) Each record of a report should contain— 
(a) the date of the report; 
(b) the person who made the report; 
(c) any person to whom the report was forwarded; 
(d) a reference by which any supporting evidence is identifiable; and 
(e) receipt of acknowledgment from the Agency. 
Duties of the Agency on receipt of a report 
7. (1) The Agency should, on receipt of a report, promptly acknowledge the receipt 
of the report in writing addressed to the entity which, or professional who, made the 
report and— 
(a) forward the report to the Steering Committee and assign it to such 
investigating officer of the Agency as the Director of the Agency 
determines; 
(b) through the investigating officer, conduct discreet inquiries to ascertain 
the basis for the suspicion; 
(c) ensure that the customer who is the subject of the inquiry is, as far as 
possible, never approached during the conduct of the inquiries; 
(d) maintain the integrity of a confidential relationship between the Agency, 
other law enforcement agencies and the reporting entities and 
professionals and any person acting for, through or on behalf of the 
entities or professionals; 
(e) keep the reporting entity or professional informed of the interim and 
final result of any investigation consequent to the reporting of a 
suspicion to the Agency; 
(f) on the request of the reporting entity or professional, promptly confirm 
the current status of an investigation with respect to a matter reported to 
the Agency; and 
(g) endeavour to issue an interim report to the institution at regular intervals 
and in any event to issue the first interim report within one month of a 
report having been made to the Agency. 
 (2) The Agency may seek further information from the reporting entity or 
professional. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
35
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(3) Where an entity or a professional makes a report to the Agency, it or he or 
she shall maintain the confidentiality of such a report and where for good reason the fact 
of the report having been made should be made known to the person to whom it relates, 
the entity or professional shall first inform the Agency and act in accordance with the 
advice and guidance of the Agency. 
 (4) The duty of the Agency under subsection (1)(e), (f) and (g) does not extend 
to divulging information which may prejudice an investigation or which the Agency in 
its judgment considers not to be appropriate to be divulged. 
 (5) An entity or a professional that acts contrary to subsection (3) or, having 
properly acted in accordance with that subsection, fails to comply with the advice or 
guidance of the Agency, commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
Introduction: This Part has been included in the Code primarily to provide guidance 
both to the Agency and the Commission in relation to their duties in handling and 
dealing with reports and to enable entities and professionals to understand and 
appreciate the chain links with respect to reports made by them. It seeks to encourage 
dialogue between the parties and thus ensure an efficient and effective partnership in 
dealing with suspicious activities without posing undue hardship to an entity’s or 
professional’s business relationship or compromising any investigative process. It also 
recognises the importance of providing responses in relation to reports made and 
provides a clear mechanism whereby an entity or a professional can seek guidance 
and assistance from the Agency or the Commission, especially in terms of dealing with 
customers in relation to whom reports are made or how to handle any specific 
customer with respect to an application for a business relationship. 
This Part also outlines the importance of both the Agency and the Commission 
adequately training their staff in order to be able to effectively conduct inspections of 
entities and professionals in relation to their AML/CFT compliance measures. While 
one would consider this to be a matter of course for both institutions, it is considered 
important to outline it in this Code to place the subject beyond doubt. An audit 
inspection on AML/CFT compliance can only carry meaning if it can be assured that 
those employed to carry out such inspection are themselves properly and adequately 
trained. Thus the requirement under this Code for inspectors to provide reports and 
recommend appropriate remedial action following the conduct of inspections can be 
assured to be of high and appropriate standard. 
(i) 
The Agency is the financial intelligence unit of the Virgin Islands and thus its 
Reporting Authority. It is established under and governed by the Financial Investigation 
Agency Act, 2003 from which it derives its powers, in addition to those prescribed in the 
DTOA and PCCA. The Agency is instrumental in the reporting mechanism with respect 
to suspicious activities relating to money laundering and terrorist financing. 
(ii) The reporting of suspicious activities requires the maintaining of a confidential 
relationship between the relevant entities and professionals and the Agency in order to 
ensure the integrity of the reporting mechanism. The desired level of confidentiality must 
be maintained at all times. Thus where an entity or a professional makes a report to the 
Agency, it will be wrong for the entity or the professional to make the fact of that report 
known to an unauthorised person, including the customer to whom the report relates. An 
unauthorised person may be considered to be one who has no nexus to and therefore has 
Anti-Money Laundering and
36
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
no need to know about the report; in effect, such report may not be made known to any 
person outside the Agency or to the person to whom it relates unless permitted by the 
Agency and in such manner and form as the Agency may direct. 
(iii) In circumstances where, following a report made to the Agency, an entity or a 
professional comes under any pressure from a customer to provide any information or 
give reason for a particular course of action adopted by the entity or professional in 
relation to the customer, the entity or professional must advise the Agency of that fact. 
The Agency will then consider the matter and advise the entity or professional 
accordingly, including providing guidance on how to deal with the customer, in what 
form and manner and to what extent. The entity or professional must at all times 
maintain dialogue with the Agency and seek guidance as necessary. It must be 
remembered at all times that the DTOA, PCCA and the 2002 Order prohibit any act 
tending towards tipping off a customer, and acting contrary thereto attracts a criminal 
offence. 
(iv) While it is considered good practice for the reporting entity or professional to be 
informed of the status of its report to the Agency, it should be noted that such 
information would essentially relate only to the general status; entities or professionals 
must not expect details of any investigation which may jeopardise or in any way 
compromise the investigation. It is expected that where the Agency, after the receipt of a 
report, decides not to proceed to investigation of the report or concludes investigation in 
relation to the report, it will advise the reporting entity or professional accordingly. 
Such advice may include information as to whether the person to whom the report 
relates poses a risk, measures to adopt to effectively deal with the risk, how such person 
should be dealt with now and in the future, how any pending and future transaction with 
the person should be handled, etc.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Financial Services Commission 
8. (1) It is the duty of the Commission to monitor compliance by its licensees and 
other persons who are subject to compliance measures, with this Code and any other 
enactment (including any other code and any guidelines) relating to money laundering or 
terrorist financing as may be prescribed by this Code or any other enactment. 
 (2) Where adherence to compliance measures relates to persons other than the 
licensees of the Commission, the Agency also has the duty to equally ensure that it 
monitors compliance by those persons as provided in subsection (1) unless otherwise 
prescribed in this Code or any other enactment. 
 (3) The Commission, as part of its statutory duty to develop a system of 
continuing education for practitioners in financial services business pursuant to section 
4(1)(j) of the Financial Services Commission Act, will include money laundering and 
terrorist financing as part of the programme in order to sensitise persons on the dangers 
posed by such activities. 
 
[Explanation:
The Commission has a statutory duty to ensure full compliance with AML/CFT measures 
by those persons that it regulates. This includes persons who are subjected to similar 
measures by virtue of other enactments. Accordingly, any entity that is caught under 
section 27(2) of the PCCA – be it regulated, non-financial business and profession or 
Commission-designated – falls to be dealt with under this Code and must comply with 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
37
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
the requirements of the Code. While the Commission has a duty to include AML/CFT 
matters in its educational programmes (such as in relation to its periodic Meet The 
Regulator fora), entities and professions have everything to gain by engaging in a 
similar exercise on a periodic basis; it certainly is an obligation under the requirement 
for staff training.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Proportionate inspection actions 
9. (1) As part of its prudential inspection of an entity that it regulates, the 
Commission is expected to review the entity’s risk assessments on money laundering 
and terrorist financing, including the entity’s policies, processes, procedures and control 
systems in order to make an objective assessment of— 
(a) the risk profile of the entity; 
(b) the adequacy or otherwise of the entity’s mitigation measures; 
(c) the entity’s compliance with the requirements of the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act, Anti-money Laundering Regulations, this Code 
and any other code, guideline, practice direction or directive that the 
Commission issues, including any other enactment that applies to such 
an entity. 
 (2) In relation to an entity that is not regulated by the Commission but to which, 
and a professional to whom, this Code applies, the Agency shall perform in relation to 
such an entity or a professional the duty imposed under subsection (1), and in such a 
case the reference to “Commission” shall be treated as a reference to the Agency. 
 (3) After every review of an entity’s or a professional’s risk assessments on 
money laundering and terrorist financing, the Commission or the Agency, as the case 
may be— 
(a) will prepare a report outlining the weaknesses identified and 
recommending necessary remedial action; and 
(b) may provide a specific period within which a recommended remedial 
action must be complied with. 
 (4) A copy of the report prepared pursuant to subsection (3) shall be transmitted 
to the entity to which or professional to whom it relates. 
 (5) Where a report provides a remedial action to be taken by an entity or a 
professional and a specific period within which the action must be taken, failure to 
comply with such action within the period stated constitutes an offence punishable under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
[Explanation:
(i) 
As part of its prudential regulation process, the Commission conducts both on-site 
and off-site inspections of entities that it regulates. Inspectors are, during the course of 
their inspections, expected (amongst other things) to identity weaknesses in the entity’s 
AML/CFT risk assessments through an analysis of the entity’s internal control and 
management systems and other available information within or in respect of the entity. 
This section requires the extension of such an inspection to every entity and professional 
caught by this Code. The Commission will review a regulated entity’s risk assessments 
Anti-Money Laundering and
38
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
as part of its periodic inspections and the other entities and professionals caught by this 
Code will be similarly inspected by the Agency. 
(ii) In carrying out their inspections, the Commission or the Agency, as the case may 
be, may rely on various sources of information available within and without the entity or 
in respect of the professional: reliance may be placed on internal documentation, 
assessments carried out by or for the entity or professional, and written submissions 
made to the Commission or the Agency. The assessment should (where applicable) 
include sample transaction testing of customer accounts or other dealings to validate the 
assessment, management’s ability and willingness to effect relevant remedial action, the 
entity’s or professional’s manual on dealing with high risk customers and the entity’s or 
professional’s enhanced due diligence measures in place. Inspectors are encouraged to 
use whatever knowledge they have of the risks associated with any products, services, 
customers and geographic locations (high risk countries) to assist them in properly 
evaluating an entity’s or a professional’s AML/CFT risk assessment; this should assist 
inspected entities and professionals in the development and implementation of their risk-
based approach to AML/CFT. Where a high risk transaction is not detected, for 
example, or the transaction of a high risk customer falls through the cracks, especially 
in relation to significant financial transactions, this may be indicative of weak internal 
control systems – weak risk management practices, regulatory breaches regarding the 
identification of high risks, insufficient staff training and weak transaction monitoring 
mechanisms. These must be viewed as some of the red flag indicators which may justify 
not only corrective action, but also the application of administrative penalties and 
criminal sanctions – systemic breakdowns or inadequate controls should invariably 
attract proportionate responses. 
(iii) Inspectors of the Agency and the Commission should conduct their inspections 
with diligence and be very alert to any nuances that might point to a risk of a weak 
internal control system to adequately deal with AML/CFT activities. During inspections 
inspectors should, where feasible, inform management of any deficiencies discovered 
and how these may be appropriately remedied. This should be followed up after every 
inspection with a formal report outlining all of the identified weaknesses and 
recommending necessary proportionate corrective action and within what time frame 
such corrective action should be effected. It should always be borne in mind that certain 
identified weaknesses, if not corrected on an urgent basis, may result in wider 
consequences of a negative nature. 
(iv) Essentially within the context of the risk-based approach, both the Agency and the 
Commission should focus their attention in making a determination as to whether or not 
an entity’s or a professional’s AML/CFT compliance and risk management regimes are 
adequate— 
 
to meet the minimum regulatory requirements (whether arising from this 
Code or other enactment, established policies, guidelines, practice directions 
or directives or otherwise); and 
 
to appropriately, efficiently and effectively mitigate any identified risks. 
Inspectors should note that the objective of an inspection is not to prohibit an entity or a 
professional from engaging in high risk activity; it is simply to establish that entities and 
professionals have in place and apply adequate and effective appropriate risk mitigation 
strategies. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
39
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(v) 
In preparing their reports following an inspection of an entity or a professional, 
inspectors of the Agency and the Commission should note that while it is not in every 
case of a regulatory breach or an identified AML/CFT deficiency that a criminal 
sanction or a fine or a penalty need be applied, they should nevertheless feel free to 
provide guidance on the nature and gravity of the breach or identified AML/CFT 
weakness in order to enable an informed decision to be taken in respect thereof. 
Generally, some breaches or AML/CFT deficiencies may only require corrective action, 
but sanctions may need to be applied in cases of substantial breaches or deficiencies. 
What constitutes a “substantial breach or deficiency” is a matter of fact to be 
determined by the Agency or the Commission, as the case may be. It is always important 
that the Agency and the Commission should appropriately document the facts on which 
a determination is made.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Training of Agency and Commission staff 
10. (1) The Agency and the Commission are required to adequately train their staff 
who are engaged in conducting on-site and off-site inspection of entities and 
professionals to enable them to make objective assessments and form sound comparative 
judgments about entities’ and professionals’ anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing systems and controls. 
 (2) The training referred to in subsection (1) should be developed in a way as to 
enable inspecting staff to properly and adequately assess— 
(a) the quality of internal procedures, including regular employee training 
programmes and internal audit, and compliance and risk management 
functions of an entity or a professional; 
(b) whether or not the risk management policies, procedures and processes 
of an entity or a professional are appropriate in the context of the 
entity’s or professional’s risk profile and are adjusted on a periodic 
basis in light of the entity’s or professional’s changing risk profiles; 
(c) the participation of senior management of an entity or a professional to 
confirm that they have undertaken adequate risk management and that 
the necessary controls and procedures are in place; and 
(d) the level of understanding of an entity’s or professional’s junior staff, 
especially its front-desk staff, of anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing laws, policies and procedures and the internal control systems 
that aid the process of detecting and preventing activities of money 
laundering and terrorist financing. 
 
[Explanation:
(i) 
In order to ensure appropriate guidance to an entity or to a professional and to 
ensure a consistent implementation of AML/CFT laws, policies, processes and 
procedures, the Agency and the Commission staff who are charged with the 
responsibility of assessing an entity’s or a professional’s AML/CFT regime must 
themselves be adequately trained. Adequate training of inspection staff will aid 
immensely the process of making objective assessments and ensuring appropriate 
recommendations for corrective actions with respect to regulatory breaches and 
identified AML/CFT deficiencies. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
40
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(ii) Making an assessment requires value judgment; inspection staff should be well-
equipped to make such judgment with respect to the adequacy or otherwise of 
management controls and systems vis-a-vis current and potential risks posed by the 
business or businesses engaged in by an entity or a professional. Undertaking 
comparative assessments between entities and professionals, including what obtains 
elsewhere, will properly assist the process of determining the relative strengths and 
weaknesses of the arrangements adopted and implemented by different entities and 
professionals. 
(iii) Training should also focus on enabling inspection staff to establish a balance 
between identified AML/CFT risks and the resources available and applied in efficiently 
and effectively managing such risks. FATF Recommendation 29 requires a review of 
customer files and the sampling of accounts (where applicable) and training should 
provide a guideline as to how to properly embark on such a review process with the full 
cooperation of the entity or professional being inspected.] 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
PART II
ESTABLISHING INTERNAL SYSTEMS AND CONTROLS
Requirement to establish an internal control system 
11. (1) An entity or a professional shall establish and maintain a written and 
effective system of internal controls which provides appropriate policies, processes and 
procedures for forestalling and preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 (2) The written system of internal controls established pursuant to subsection (1) 
shall be framed in a way that would— 
(a) enable the entity or professional to effectively conduct an assessment of 
the risks that a business relationship or one-off transaction may pose 
with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing; and 
(b) be appropriate to the circumstances of the business relationship or one-
off transaction, having regard to the degree of risks assessed. 
 (3) An entity’s or a professional’s written system of internal controls shall 
include the following matters— 
(a) providing increased focus on the entity’s or professional’s operations, 
such as its or his or her products, services, customers and geographic 
locations, that are more vulnerable to abuse by money launderers, 
terrorist financiers and other criminals; 
(b) providing regular reviews of the risk assessment and management 
policies, processes and procedures, taking into account the entity’s or 
professional’s circumstances and environment and the activities relative 
to its or his or her business; 
(c) designating an individual or individuals at the level of the entity’s or 
professional’s senior management who is responsible for managing anti-
money laundering and terrorist financing compliance; 
(d) providing for an anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
compliance function and review programme; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
41
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(e) ensuring that the money laundering and terrorist financing risks are 
assessed and mitigated before new products are offered;
(f) informing senior management or the professional of compliance 
initiatives, identified compliance deficiencies, corrective action required 
or taken, new customers who may be high risk, suspicious activity 
reports that are filed with the Agency and any advice or guidance issued 
by the Agency pursuant to section 7(3); 
(g) providing for business and programme continuity notwithstanding any 
changes in management or employee composition or structure; 
(h) the manner of dealing with and expediting recommendations for 
regulatory breaches and anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
compliance contained in any report arising from an inspection 
conducted pursuant to section 9; 
(i) measures to adequately meet record keeping and reporting requirements 
and providing for timely updates in response to changes in regulations, 
policies and other initiatives relating to anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 
(j) implementing risk-based customer due diligence policies, processes and 
procedures; 
(k) providing for additional controls for higher risk customers, transactions 
and products as may be necessary (such as setting transaction limits and 
requiring management approvals); 
(l) providing mechanisms for the timely identification of reportable 
transactions and ensure accurate filing of required reports; 
(m) providing for adequate supervision of employees that handle (where 
applicable) currency transactions, complete reports, grant exemptions, 
monitor for suspicious activity or engage in any other activity that forms 
part of the entity’s or professional’s anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing programme; 
(n) incorporating anti-money laundering and terrorist financing compliance 
into job descriptions and performance evaluations of key staff; 
(o) providing for appropriate and periodic training to be given to all key 
staff, including front office staff; 
(p) providing for a common control framework in the case of group entities; 
(q) providing a mechanism for disciplining employees who fail, without 
reasonable excuse, to make, or to make timely, reports of any internal 
suspicious activity or transaction relating to money laundering or 
terrorist financing; 
(r) providing senior management with means of independently testing and 
validating the development and operation of the risk and management 
processes and related internal controls to appropriately reflect the risk 
profile of the entity; 
(s) providing appropriate measures for the identification of complex or 
unusual large or unusual large patterns of transactions which do not 
Anti-Money Laundering and
42
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
demonstrate any apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose or 
which are unusual having regard to the patterns of business or known 
resources of applicants for business or customers; (Substituted by S.I. 
4/2009) 
(t) establishing policies, processes and procedures for communicating to 
employees an entity’s or a professional’s written system of internal 
controls; (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(u) establishing policies, processes, procedures and conditions governing 
the entering into business relationships prior to effecting any required 
verifications; and (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(v) any matter that the Commission considers relevant to be included and it 
issues a directive in writing to that effect in relation to an entity or a 
professional. 
 (3A) Every entity and professional shall establish and maintain an independent 
audit function that is adequately resourced to test compliance, including sample testing, 
with its or his or her written system of internal controls and the other provisions of the 
Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
This Code adopts a risk-based approach which is considered the most effective 
way of managing the risks that are associated with money laundering and terrorist 
financing. It must be viewed as supplementing the AMLR, DTOA, PCCA, FSCA and the 
2002 Order in so far as money laundering and terrorist financing are concerned. The 
risk-based approach essentially enables an entity and a professional to balance the risks 
associated with a customer or a specific transaction to the established measures to 
contain and properly deal with those risks; it provides an element of flexibility that 
enables an entity or a professional to devise and apply its or his or her own systems of 
internal controls and management to deal with specific cases and circumstances to 
forestall and prevent acts of money laundering and terrorist financing in relation to the 
entity. It is considered to be a more cost effective approach to dealing with money 
laundering and terrorist financing in that it allows the entity or professional to 
concentrate resources proportionately to the more vulnerable areas of operations to 
ensure an effective system of controls. In a nutshell, the risk-based approach 
encompasses a recognition of the existence of the risks, an undertaking of the 
assessment of the risks and developing strategies to effectively manage and mitigate the 
risks identified. 
(ii) An entity’s or a professional’s ability to effectively deal with money laundering and 
terrorist financing activities will depend immensely on the measures established and 
implemented to ensure appropriate internal controls. The entity or professional needs to 
develop appropriate compliance measures that properly enable the assessment of risks 
with respect to business relationships and one-off transactions; it or he or she needs to 
undertake AML/CFT risk assessments if it or he or she is to properly and effectively 
build a solid regime of internal controls. 
(iii) The nature, form and extent of AML/CFT compliance controls will invariably 
depend on several factors, considering the status and circumstances of the entity or 
professional. Some of those factors may be outlined as follows—
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
43
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
the nature, scale and complexity of the entity’s or professional’s business 
operations; 
the diversity of the entity’s or professional’s operations, including its or his 
or her geographical diversity; 
the profile of the entity’s or professional’s customers, products, services and 
activities; 
the distribution channels utilised by the entity or professional;
the size and volume of the transactions engaged in by the entity or 
professional; 
the degree of risk associated with each area of the operations of the entity or 
professional; 
the extent to which the entity or professional is dealing directly with its or his 
or her customers or is dealing through intermediaries, third parties, 
correspondents or non-face to face channels; and 
the measure of regulatory compliance which has effect on AML/CFT 
compliance. 
It is important therefore, in developing a system of internal controls, for an entity or a 
professional to adopt a holistic approach that takes the above factors into account. The 
factors operate as guidelines and adherence thereto will assist an entity or a 
professional in properly and effectively developing and establishing a strong AML/CFT 
regime that keeps the entity’s or professional’s name intact and insulates it or him or 
her against unwarranted criminal activity. 
(iv) An entity or a professional is free to structure the risks it or he or she assesses 
according to the degree of the risks: higher risks will require enhanced due diligence to 
be performed by the entity or professional with respect to high risk customers, business 
relationships or transactions; medium risks will require some form of enhanced due 
diligence to satisfy the entity’s or professional’s internal control system; lower risks may 
require reduced or simplified measures, but not be completely exempted from due 
diligence measures. 
(v) 
The requirement to establish and maintain an independent audit function creates 
an obligation on an entity and a professional to essentially ensure the establishment of 
appropriate and effective mechanisms which allow for a periodic evaluation of the 
implementation by the entity or professional of the provisions of the AMLR and this 
Code as well as the internal control systems developed by the entity or professional. This 
obligation must be implemented by a person or persons that function independently and 
who have the ability to make objective assessments in a transparent and fair manner. 
The audit function may form a separate and independent unit of the entity (such as its 
compliance portfolio) or the professional’s undertaking, or the function may be 
outsourced. Whatever arrangement the entity chooses, it or he or she must provide 
adequate financial and human resources as would be commensurate with the size and 
volume of business of the entity or professional and adopt measures that guarantee the 
independent functioning of the arrangement. It should be noted that ultimately the 
objective is to ensure a proper and adequate testing of the entity’s level of compliance 
with its AML/CFT obligations under the AMLR, this Code and other applicable laws 
and policies. It is imperative that the results of any testing of compliance obligations 
under this section are embodied in a compliance audit report to be maintained by the 
Anti-Money Laundering and
44
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
entity or professional and made available to the Agency or Commission in an inspection 
or whenever requested. In addition, the entity or professional must provide an indication 
in writing as regards the steps taken, where applicable, to comply with any 
shortcomings identified in a compliance audit.] (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Prohibition of misuse of technological developments 
11A. 
An entity or a professional shall adopt and maintain such policies, 
procedures and other measures considered appropriate to prevent the misuse of 
technological developments for purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
A lot of transactions are carried out these days utilizing the facilities afforded by 
the internet. While there are those that utilize these facilities for legitimate business 
reasons, there are also those that abuse and misuse the facilities for nefarious activities. 
Financial institutions such as banks, insurance companies, mutual funds and financing 
and money services entities that are engaged in the business of receiving and making 
payment of monies generally utilize technological facilities (such as telephone banking, 
transmission of instructions through the means of facsimile, investing via the internet, 
wire transfers, etc.) to establish business relationships and engage in various 
transactions and are therefore particularly vulnerable to the abuse of technologies to 
facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime activities. 
(ii) Section 11A therefore obligates an entity or a professional that utilizes 
technological facilities to adopt appropriate policies, procedures and other relevant 
measures to guard against abuses and misuse that may be connected to the use of those 
facilities. These matters are left entirely to the judgment of the entity or professional 
concerned, having regard to the scope and extent of its reliance on technological 
facilities. Accordingly, the entity or professional is required to develop and maintain 
appropriate policies, procedures and other relevant measures for use by its or his or her 
staff to prevent the entity or professional from being used to carry out money 
laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime activities. Both the Agency and 
the Commission may request to see such measures, procedures and other relevant 
measures in relation to any inspection conducted by them or for any other purpose. 
(iii) With respect to the risks that may be associated with electronic services engaged in 
by banks, entities that provide banking services are particularly encouraged to make 
reference to the “Risk Management Principles for Electronic Banking” issued by the 
Basel Committee in July, 2003.] (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Duty to carry out risk assessment 
12. An entity and a professional, in addition to establishing a written system of 
internal controls, shall carry out money laundering and terrorist financing risk 
assessments in relation to each customer, business relationship or one-off transaction in 
order— 
(a) to determine the existence of any risks; 
(b) to determine how best to manage and mitigate any identified risks; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
45
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(c) to develop, establish and maintain appropriate anti-money laundering 
and terrorist financing systems and controls to effectively respond to the 
identified risks; and 
(d) to ensure that at all times there is full compliance with the requirements 
of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and other enactments, 
policies, codes, practice directions and directives in place in relation to 
anti-money laundering and terrorist financing activities. 
Roles and duties of an entity and a professional 
13. (1) An entity or a professional shall exercise constant vigilance in its dealings 
with an applicant for business or with a customer and in entering into any business 
relationship or one-off transaction as a means of deterring persons from making use of 
any of its or his or her facilities for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist 
financing. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) Pursuant to subsection (1), an entity or a professional shall— 
(a) verify its or his or her customers and keep vigilance over any suspicious 
transactions; 
(b) ensure compliance with the reporting requirements to the Steering 
Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Drug Trafficking Offences 
Act, 1992 and the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act and any other 
enactment relating to money laundering or terrorist financing; 
(c) keep record of its or his or her dealings with each customer; 
(d) put in place, as part of its or his or her internal control system, a 
mechanism which enables it or him or her to—
 (i) determine or receive confirmation of, the true identity of a customer 
requesting its or his or her service; 
 (ii) recognise and report to the Steering Committee, a transaction which 
raises a suspicion that the money involved may be a proceed of a 
criminal conduct, drug trafficking or drug money laundering or may 
relate to a financing of terrorist activity; 
 (iii) keep records of its or his or her dealings with a customer and of 
reports submitted to the Steering Committee, for the period 
prescribed under the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this 
Code; and 
 (iv) ensure that timely reports are made to the Agency, where a 
proposed or existing business relationship or one-off transaction 
with a politically exposed person gives grounds for suspicion; 
(e) ensure that key staff know to whom their suspicions should be reported; 
(f) ensure that there is a clear procedure for reporting a suspicious 
transaction to the Reporting Officer without delay; (Amended by S.I. 
4/2009) 
(g) ensure that it or he or she has in place a system of regularly monitoring 
and testing the implementation of its or his or her vigilance systems to 
Anti-Money Laundering and
46
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
detect any activity that point to money laundering or terrorist financing; 
and (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(h) identify and pay special attention to, and examine, as far as possible, the 
background and purpose of, any complex or unusual large or unusual 
pattern of transaction or transaction that does not demonstrate any 
apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose or which is unusual 
having regard to the pattern of business or known sources of an 
applicant for business or a customer; (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(i) record its or his or her findings in relation to any examination carried out 
pursuant to paragraph (h) and make such findings available to the 
Agency, Commission or other lawful authority, including the auditors of 
the entity or professional, for a period of at least 5 years; and (Inserted 
by S.I. 4/2009) 
(j) adopt and maintain policies and procedures to deal with any specific 
risks that may be associated with non-face to face business relationships 
or transactions, including when establishing or conducting on-going due 
diligence with respect to such relationships or transactions. (Inserted by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
 (3) Where under subsection (2) a report is required to be made to the Steering 
Committee, that report may be made through the Agency. 
 (4) An entity or a professional that fails to comply with the requirements of this 
section commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of 
the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The responsibilities outlined herein essentially are designed to facilitate and 
strengthen the internal control systems that an entity or, as applicable, a professional is 
required to put in place as part of its risk-based assessment of money laundering and 
terrorist financing activities pursuant to section 11. It makes it imperative for the entity 
or professional to exercise vigilance in its dealings with customers and maintain 
appropriate records of all transactions. This accords with the obligations set out in the 
AMLR and the reporting requirements under the DTOA, PCCA and the 2002 Order. 
(ii) Putting in place an appropriate system to check against abuse or misuse of the 
facilities that an entity or a professional offers is just one laudable step; the entity or 
professional must ensure that the system in fact works. It is therefore good practice and 
an obligation to regularly monitor and test the established system. The manner of 
monitoring and testing the system is a matter for the entity or the professional. As would 
be apparent in subsequent provisions of this Code, an effective monitoring process is 
essential to determine any activity that tends towards money laundering or terrorist 
financing or indeed any other financial crime. An effective monitoring system assists 
with identification of unusual complex or high risk activity or business transaction and 
thus helps an entity or a professional in guarding against potential risks. Thus when 
designing internal systems of monitoring (which is expected to form part of the required 
internal control systems), it is essential that these are geared towards enabling an early 
detection of certain activities for further examination or verification, engaging 
management attention to possible loopholes that are being exploited and what remedial 
measures need be put in place. Monitoring may be carried out at different levels, 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
47
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
including electronic monitoring of a customer’s activities; however, serious 
consideration should always be given to implementing a monitoring process at the time 
when business transactions are taking place or about to take place or through some 
independent review that gives an appreciable understanding of the transactions that 
have been effected. Ultimately, it should be noted that there is no fixed science to 
monitoring; it is a question of designing appropriate systems of internal controls and 
applying good judgment. 
(iii) Furthermore, key staff must never be left in doubt as to whom within the entity or 
the professional’s establishment to report suspicious activities. There must be clear 
procedures for the reporting mechanism; the Reporting Officer must be central to the 
reporting process and nothing must be held from him or her in terms of compliance 
measures relative to AML/CFT matters. 
(iv) It should be noted that complex and unusual large transactions or unusual patterns 
of transactions may take different forms and will vary from transaction to transaction. 
Entities and professionals should exercise the utmost vigilance and, in particular, in 
carrying out their examination of the background and purpose of a transaction, pay 
attention to significant transactions pertaining to a business relationship, transactions 
that exceed certain limits that are unusual with a customer or that should raise a red 
flag, very high account turnovers that are inconsistent with the size of the balance, and 
transactions which fall outside the scope of the regular pattern of the account’s activity. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(v) 
The formation of non-face to face business relationships or transactions may vary. 
It is for the entity or professional to identify and properly scrutinize the form and nature 
of a non-face to face business relationship or transaction. Such a relationship or 
transaction may be concluded electronically over the internet or by post or may relate to 
services and transactions over the internet, including trading in securities by retail 
investors over the internet or other interactive computer services; the use of ATM 
machines, telephone banking, transmission of instructions or applications by facsimile 
or similar means; and effecting payments and receiving cash withdrawals as part of 
electronic point of sale transaction utilizing prepaid or reloadable or account-linked 
value cards. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(vi) The AMLR requires the appointment of an Anti-money Laundering Reporting 
Officer (referred to in this Code as “the Reporting Officer”). For entities that are 
regulated by the Commission, they are required under the FSCA to appoint Compliance 
Officers. The FSCA allows such Compliance Officers to also function as Reporting 
Officers. However, the mere appointment of a Compliance Officer by an entity that is 
regulated by the Commission does not in itself automatically qualify the Officer to 
perform the role of a Reporting Officer; the approval of the Commission is required (see 
section 34(7) of the FSCA).] (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Responsibilities of senior management 
14. (1) For the purposes of this Code, a reference to “senior management” of an 
entity refers to the entity’s officer or officers holding the position of director, manager or 
equivalent position, and includes any other person who is directly involved in the 
entity’s decision-making processes at a senior level. 
 (2) The senior management of an entity shall— 
Anti-Money Laundering and
48
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) adopt such documented policies, consistent with the requirements of this 
Code and the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and related 
enactments, as may be relevant to the prevention of money laundering 
and terrorist financing; 
(b) ensure that the risk assessment required under section 12 is carried out 
and submitted to the senior management for its consideration, approval 
and guidance; 
(c) ensure that the established policies to prevent money laundering and 
terrorist financing and the risk assessments that are carried out are 
reviewed from time to time at appropriate levels and kept up-to-date as 
necessary; 
(d) allocate responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of risk-
based anti-money laundering and terrorist financing systems and 
controls and monitor the effectiveness of such systems and controls; 
(e) ensure that overall the entity’s anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing systems and controls are kept under regular review and that 
breaches are dealt with promptly; 
(f) oversee the entity’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
regime and ensure speedy action in effecting corrective measures with 
respect to any identified deficiencies; 
(g) ensure that regular and timely information relevant to the management 
of the entity’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing risks is 
made available to the senior management; and 
(h) ensure that the Reporting Officer is adequately resourced. 
 (3) The obligations of senior management outlined in subsection (2) may form 
part of the written system of internal controls of the entity required under section 11. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Section 11(3)(r) of this Code outlines as one of the matters to be embodied in an 
entity’s written system of internal controls, the need for providing senior management 
with the means of independently testing and validating the development and operation of 
the risk and management processes in order to reflect appropriately the entity’s risk 
profile. Section 14, in effect, provides the mechanics of ensuring full compliance with 
that requirement. The matters outlined are essential to an effective testing machinery of 
an entity’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime. The testing should be 
risk-based, concentrating attention on higher risk customers, products and services, 
while at the same time evaluating the adequacy of the entity’s overall AML/CFT 
programme. This should extend to testing the quality of risk management for the entity’s 
operations, including any of its subsidiaries. 
(ii) While the section is not outlined as an obligation applicable to a professional, a 
professional is well-advised to adopt, to the extent feasible to effectively insulate his or 
her anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime, the measures specified in 
relation to senior management. Considering the nexus between this section and section 
11 (which applies to a professional), adopting the features of section 14 by a 
professional will be of immense assistance.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
49
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
Responsibilities of an employee 
15. (1) An employee of an entity or a professional shall— 
(a) at all times comply with the internal control systems of his or her 
employer, including all measures relating to the employer’s anti-money 
laundering and terrorist financing mechanisms; and 
(b) disclose any suspicion he or she comes across in the course of his or her 
duties to his or her Reporting Officer or other appropriate senior officer 
in accordance with the internal control systems and reporting 
procedures of his or her employer. 
(2) An employee of an entity or a professional shall, in accordance with the 
internal control systems and reporting procedures of his or her employer, make a report 
to his or her employer’s Reporting Officer concerning (where applicable) a suspicious 
customer he or she has been involved with in his or her previous employment, if that 
customer subsequently becomes an applicant for business with the new employer and 
the employee recalls that previous suspicion. 
 (3) Where an employee to whom subsection (2) applies fails to make the report 
required of him or her under that subsection, he or she commits an offence and is liable 
to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
Reporting Officer 
16.  (1) An entity shall appoint a Reporting Officer with sufficient seniority in 
accordance with section 13 of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations who shall have 
the responsibility of performing the functions outlined in that section of the regulations. 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) A Reporting Officer shall be a person who— 
(a) meets the qualifications outlined in the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations; 
(b) understands the business of the entity and is well-versed in the different 
types of transaction and products which the entity handles and which 
may give rise to opportunities for money laundering or terrorist 
financing. 
 (3) An entity shall— 
(a) ensure that the Reporting Officer has sufficient time to undertake and 
perform his or her duties; 
(b) provide the Reporting Officer with sufficient resources, including 
financial and human resources as may be necessary, to enable him or 
her to properly and efficiently discharge his or her duties; 
(c) afford the Reporting Officer direct access to the entity’s senior 
management (including its board of directors or equivalent body) with 
respect to matters concerning the prevention of money laundering and 
terrorist financing; and 
(d) notify the Agency, or the Commission in the case of a regulated entity, 
in writing within fourteen days of its Reporting Officer ceasing to act as 
such and shall promptly act to appoint another person to replace him or 
Anti-Money Laundering and
50
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
her in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations. 
 (4) The reference in subsection (1) to “sufficient seniority” in relation to the 
appointment of a Reporting Officer within an entity shall be construed as a reference to 
an appointment at a senior management level. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The Reporting Officer is expected to play a very significant role in the monitoring 
and implementation of an entity’s AML/CFT regime, including monitoring adherence to 
the entity’s internal control systems to ensure full compliance with all enactments 
relating to AML/CFT. He or she effectively functions as the liaison between the entity 
and the Agency and with respect to the entity’s compliance with established AML/CFT 
laws, policies and procedures. Where the Agency has any issues with or requires 
information or other form of assistance from the entity, the Reporting Officer is expected 
to deal with the issues or render the necessary assistance. The Compliance Officer 
appointed pursuant to the FSCA (whether or not the person also functions as a 
Reporting Officer) performs a similar role in relation to the Commission. 
(ii) Accordingly, in order to ensure that a Reporting Officer effectively performs the 
role assigned to him or her, it is important that the person is appropriately qualified in 
accordance with the AMLR, fit and proper and is of sufficient seniority. A Reporting 
Officer must be placed so as to enable him or her to operate independently in the 
performance of his or her duties and without any undue influence, especially in relation 
to what he or she may be monitoring and reporting with respect to the entity, or the 
professional (where applicable). He or she must be given unrestricted access to the 
entity’s records and board of directors (or equivalent body such as in a partnership) in 
order to ensure a balanced and objective assessment of suspicious transactions or of 
customers. Apart from enabling him or her to formulate a proper report to the Agency, 
such access would also assist the entity (or professional) in adopting relevant measures 
to guard against any abuse of the facilities it offers and thus keep it away from 
unintentionally getting close to committing any breach or criminal offence. (Amended by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
(iii) In cases where a Compliance Officer appointed pursuant to the FSCA also 
performs the role of a Reporting Officer for an entity, it is the responsibility of senior 
management to ensure that the compliance and reporting functions are not muddled; the 
functions must be distinct, even though related in some measure, in order to ensure that 
the execution of the reporting requirements under the DTOA, PCCA, the 2002 Order, 
AMLR and this Code are not delayed or in any way hindered. An entity with a 
substantial business base will find it necessary to appoint other staff to assist the 
Reporting Officer by filtering reports to the Reporting Officer who then synthesises such 
reports for the purposes of making a determination for onward reporting to the Agency 
or the Commission in relation to compliance-related matters with respect to AML/CFT. 
It should be noted that whatever internal reporting mechanisms an entity establishes, the 
ultimate reporting function vests in the Reporting Officer and accordingly other 
employees with reporting functions must be answerable to the Reporting Officer. It will 
be acting contrary to the AMLR and this Code to place any employee so as to undermine 
the functions of the Reporting Officer. 
(iv) The Reporting Officer is expected to have a broad knowledge of AML/CFT 
matters, including current laws and policies relating thereto. He or she must 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
51
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
appropriately utilise his or her knowledge and experience to fully assess the disclosures 
made to him or her; he or she is only obligated to make a suspicious activity report to 
the Agency if he or she considers that, on the basis of the assessment, the information at 
his or her disposal gives rise to a knowledge or suspicion, or provides reasonable 
grounds for knowledge or suspicion, of money laundering or terrorist financing. It is 
therefore not obligatory that the Reporting Officer must pass on to the Agency all 
suspicious transaction reports received by him or her; every report received by him or 
her requires the application of judgment on his or her part, bearing in mind the requisite 
statutory obligations, current policies of the entity and the entity’s internal control 
systems relative to AML/CFT. In situations where a Reporting Officer is not certain as 
to whether or not a report he or she has received merits onward reporting, such a report 
must be transmitted to the Agency (see section 18 below); the Reporting Officer may 
provide such explanation or view with respect to the report which he or she considers 
may aid the Agency. 
(v) 
While a Reporting Officer may be tasked with other responsibilities within an 
entity as part of his or her official assignments, it is important that such responsibilities 
are not so onerous as to hinder the Reporting Officer from effectively performing his or 
her statutory functions. It is the duty of a Reporting Officer who finds himself or herself 
in such a situation to discuss the matter with senior management to seek an acceptable 
resolution that enables an effective performance of his or her reporting functions. Such 
discussions and the outcome thereof must be documented by the Reporting Officer and 
where there is no acceptable resolution the Reporting Officer must immediately inform 
the Agency and the Commission. Following an assessment by the Agency or the 
Commission, the entity may be required to scale back the Reporting Officer’s other 
official responsibilities or seek to appoint another person as the entity’s Reporting 
Officer. 
(vi) The AMLR recognises that there are circumstances where an entity may not have 
employees in the Virgin Islands and any guidelines provided in this Code in relation to 
such an entity or in relation to other circumstances shall have effect with respect 
thereto. An entity’s appointed person to perform the functions of Reporting Officer may 
be an employee of the entity, an external individual resident in the Virgin Islands or an 
external individual resident outside the Virgin Islands in a jurisdiction that is recognised 
by virtue of section 52 of this Code (see Schedule 2). In each case, the qualifications set 
out in regulation 13 of the AMLR must be met. Generally, in any of these cases, the 
AML/CFT reporting requirements of the AMLR and this Code will apply. (Inserted by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
(vii) The AMLR and this Code set out the internal reporting obligations of entities with 
respect to suspicious transactions. It is recognised that mutual funds and mutual fund 
administrators bear the same obligations in relation to their relevant financial business. 
While ultimate responsibility resides in the entity to ensure appropriate reporting 
mechanisms, such an obligation may be satisfied in ways other than through the direct 
appointment of a Reporting Officer for the Fund. In circumstances where the Fund does 
not have any staff employed in the Virgin Islands and the issuance and administration of 
subscriptions and redemptions is performed by a person who is regulated in the Virgin 
Islands or a recognised jurisdiction (Schedule 2) pursuant to section 52 of this Code, 
compliance by such person with the AML/CFT requirements of the Territory or the 
recognised jurisdiction will be construed and accepted as compliance with the 
obligations set out in the AMLR and this Code. It would be construed and considered as 
acceptable also where a Fund appoints a qualified third party pursuant to the provisions 
of the AMLR to act as its Reporting Officer; such third party may be an individual 
Anti-Money Laundering and
52
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
resident within or outside the Virgin Islands who is qualified and competent to perform 
such a role. It is essential (and should be considered good practice), however, that the 
directors of the Fund document through appropriate mechanisms (whether through 
board resolutions or otherwise) the form and manner in which the Fund has satisfied its 
obligations to ensure compliance with internal reporting procedures with respect to the 
identification and reporting of suspicious transactions.] (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009)  
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Duty of Reporting Officer to make a report to the Agency 
17. (1) A Reporting Officer shall make a report to the Agency of every suspicious 
customer or transaction relating to his or her entity and such report may— 
(a) be made in such form as the Reporting Officer considers relevant, 
provided that it complies with the requirements of section 55; and 
(b) be sent by facsimile, or by other electronic means if signed 
electronically, where the Reporting Officer considers the urgent need to 
make the report. 
 (2) A Reporting Officer who fails to comply with subsection (1) commits an 
offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act. 
Reporting a suspicion 
18. (1) An employee of an entity or a professional, including senior management, 
shall— 
(a) report a suspicious activity or transaction to a Reporting Officer in such 
form as the Reporting Officer determines or in such other form 
established by the entity or professional as part of its internal control 
system as the Commission may approve in writing, provided that the 
report complies with the requirements of section 55; and 
(b) ensure that the report made under paragraph (a) provides details of the 
information giving rise to any knowledge or reasonable grounds for the 
suspicion held, including the full details of the customers. 
 (2) The requirement to report a suspicious activity or transaction under 
subsection (1) includes the reporting of any attempted activity or transaction that the 
entity or professional has turned away. 
 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), and subsection (2) where possible, a 
report must be made in circumstances where an applicant for business or a customer fails 
to provide adequate information or supporting evidence to verify his or her identity or, in 
the case of a legal person, the identity of any beneficial owner. 
 (4) A Reporting Officer shall, on receipt of a report concerning a suspicious 
activity or transaction, investigate the details of the report and determine whether— 
(a) the information contained in the report supports the suspicion; and 
(b) there is the need under the circumstances to submit a report to the 
Agency. 
 (5) If the Reporting Officer decides that the information does not substantiate a 
suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, the Reporting Officer shall— 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
53
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(a) record that decision, outlining the nature of the information to which the 
suspicious activity relates, the date he or she received the information, 
the full name of the person who provided him or her with the 
information and the date he or she took the decision that the information 
did not substantiate a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist 
financing; 
(b) state the reason or reasons for his or her decision; and 
(c) make the record for his or her decision available to the Agency or 
Commission in an inspection or whenever requested. 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (6) Where the Reporting Officer is uncertain as to whether the details of the 
report received by him or her substantiate the suspicion, he or she shall make a report of 
the suspicion to the Agency. 
 (7) Where— 
(a) an employee of an entity or a professional fails to comply with 
subsection (1); or 
(b) a Reporting Officer fails to comply with subsection (4), (5) or (6), he or 
she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
[Explanation:
(i) 
It should be noted that the DTOA and the PCCA make it imperative for a person to 
make a report of any information that comes to his or her knowledge in the course of 
any suspicious business activity or transaction in his or her employment. Such 
information must relate to a situation where the person knows or suspects or has 
reasonable grounds for knowing or suspecting that another person is engaged in money 
laundering. Similar provision is made in respect of terrorist financing under the 2002 
Order. In respect of an entity, this obligation applies to both the entity and the 
employees of the entity who possess the information in the circumstance described. 
However, in relation to the employees, their reporting obligation is discharged when 
they make the requisite report in accordance with the provisions of the AMLR and this 
Code or the procedures established by their employer. 
(ii) It is important that persons with knowledge of any suspicious activity or 
transaction make a timely report of their suspicions. Depending on the nature of the 
activity or transaction or the evidence relating thereto, a timely report can make a huge 
difference in terms of its value; delayed reporting may be viewed as a deliberate attempt 
to not fully comply with the reporting obligations outlined in the AMLR and this Code 
and the internal procedures established by the applicable entity. Such conduct must 
attract applicable sanctions and/or disciplinary proceedings against the employee 
concerned. 
(iii) There may be circumstances where an applicant for business or one-off 
transaction may be unwilling to provide or may simply fail to provide adequate 
information requested to verify his or her identity or, in the case of a legal person, the 
identity of the beneficial owner or other person controlling such beneficial owner. The 
transaction may, as a result, not be concluded. It is important in such a situation for the 
employee to record the fact of such an activity and the details of the person and the 
transaction concerned. Where the entity turns away the applicant for business, it must 
Anti-Money Laundering and
54
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
nevertheless record the essential information and transmit that to the Reporting Officer 
who must in turn inform the Agency if in his or her assessment the information 
substantiates a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. It should be noted, 
however, that it may not be in all cases that such a requirement comes into play: the 
employee dealing with the applicant for business must consider the nature, size and 
volume of the desired business relationship, the amount involved and source of the 
funds, whether or not the person is acting for himself or herself or on behalf of 
somebody else (legal or natural), the demeanour of the applicant for business, the risks 
involved and so on. It becomes a question of judgment as to whether the relationship 
sought by the applicant for business merits suspicion for reporting purposes; but in any 
case where a suspicion is held, it must be reported to the Reporting Officer. Yet there 
are also situations where an applicant for business may turn away before any essential 
information is recorded of or from him or her; in such a case the obligation provided 
under section 18(2) will not apply.] (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
PART III
EFFECTING CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE MEASURES
Requirements of customer due diligence 
19. (1) For the purposes of this Code, the reference to “customer due diligence” 
refers to the steps required of an entity or a professional in dealings with an applicant for 
business or a customer in relation to a business relationship or one-off transaction in 
order to forestall and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial 
crimes. 
 (2) Every entity or professional shall engage in customer due diligence in its or 
his or her dealings with an applicant for business or a customer, irrespective of the 
nature or form of the business. 
 (3) A customer due diligence process requires an entity or a professional— 
(a) to inquire into and identify the applicant for business, or the intended 
customer, and verify the identity; 
(b) to obtain information on the purpose and intended nature of the business 
relationship; 
(c) to use reliable evidence through such inquiry as is necessary to verify 
the identity of the applicant for business or intended customer; 
(d) to utilise such measures as are necessary to understand the 
circumstances and business of the applicant for business or the intended 
customer, including obtaining information on the source of wealth and 
funds, size and volume of the business, and expected nature and level of 
the transaction sought; (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(e) to conduct, where a business relationship exists, an on-going monitoring 
of that relationship and the transactions undertaken for purposes of 
making an assessment regarding consistency between the transactions 
undertaken by the customer and the circumstances and business of the 
customer; and (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
55
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(f) to inquire into and identify a person who purports to act on behalf of an 
applicant for business or a customer, which is a legal person or a 
partnership, trust or other legal arrangement, is so authorised and to 
verify the person’s identity. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (4) An entity shall undertake customer due diligence in any of the following
circumstances— 
(a) when establishing a business relationship; 
(b) when effecting a one-off transaction (including a wire transfer) which 
involves funds of or above $15,000 or such lower threshold as the entity 
may establish; 
(c) when there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, 
irrespective of any exemption or threshold that may be referred to in this 
Code including where an applicant for business or a customer is 
considered by an entity or a professional as posing a low risk; (Amended 
by S.I. 4/2009) 
(d) where a business relationship or transaction presents any specific higher 
risk scenario; and (Inserted  by S.I. 4/2009) 
(e) when the entity has doubts about the veracity or adequacy of previously 
obtained customer identification data. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (5) In circumstances where an applicant for business or customer is the trustee 
of a trust or a legal person, additional customer due diligence measures to be undertaken 
shall include determining the following— 
(a) the type of trust or legal person; 
(b) the nature of the activities of the trust or legal person and the place 
where its activities are carried out; and 
(c) in the case of a trust—
 (i) where the trust forms part of a more complex structure, details of 
the structure, including any underlying companies; and 
 (ii) classes of beneficiaries, charitable objects and related matters; 
(d) in the case of a legal person, the ownership of the legal person and, 
where the legal person is a company, details of any group of which the 
company is a part, including details of the ownership of the group; and 
(e) whether the trust or trustee or the legal person is subject to regulation 
and, if so, details of the regulator. 
 (6) Adopting the risk-based approach, an entity may determine customers or 
transactions that it considers carry low risk in terms of the business relationship, and to 
make such a determination the entity may take into account such factors as— 
(a) a source of fixed income (such as salary, superannuation and pension); 
(b) in the case of a financial institution, the institution is subject to anti-
money laundering and terrorist financing requirements that are 
consistent with the FATF Recommendations and are supervised for 
compliance with such requirements; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
56
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) publicly listed companies that are subject to regulatory disclosure 
requirements; 
(d) Government statutory bodies; 
(e) life insurance policies where the annual premium does not exceed 
$1,000; 
(f) insurance policies for pension schemes where there is no surrender 
clause and the policy cannot in any way be used as a collateral; 
(g) beneficial owners of pooled accounts held by non-financial businesses 
and professions if they are subject to anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing requirements and are subject to effective systems for 
monitoring and compliance with the anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing requirements; 
(h) the applicants for business or customers are resident in foreign 
jurisdictions which the Commission is satisfied are in compliance with 
and effectively implement the FATF Recommendations pursuant to the 
provisions of section 52; (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(i) in the case of a body corporate that is part of a group, the body corporate 
is subject to and properly and adequately supervised for compliance 
with anti-money laundering and terrorist financing requirements that are 
consistent with the FATF Recommendations; and (Inserted by S.I. 
4/2009) 
(j) the entity considers, in all the circumstances of the customer, having 
regard to the entity’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
obligations, to constitute little or no risk. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(6A) For the purposes of subsection (6)(i), the term “group”, in relation to a body 
corporate, means that body corporate, any other body corporate which is its holding 
company or subsidiary and any other body corporate which is a subsidiary of that 
holding company, and “subsidiary” and “holding company” shall be construed in 
accordance with section 2(2) to (6) of the Banks and Trust Companies Act. (Inserted by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
 (7) Where pursuant to subsection (6) an entity makes a determination that a 
customer poses low risk, the entity may reduce or simplify the customer due diligence 
measures as required under subsections (2), (3) and (4)(b). 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The need for a regulated entity to operate customer due diligence (CDD) has long 
been a part of the BVI’s AML/CFT regime. The Code now extends the application of the 
regime to cover other entities and professionals considered essential to ensure a 
comprehensive compliance regime with the FATF Recommendations. CDD is 
considered a very useful mechanism to protect an entity (and by extension the Territory) 
from the risks associated with money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial 
crimes; it promotes transparency in business transactions and thus reduces the 
possibilities of identity theft. An entity or a professional that appropriately develops and 
applies AML/CFT systems and controls effectively insulates itself or himself or herself 
from falling afoul of the law and the consequences that flow from criminal proceedings. 
An effectively applied CDD also helps to bridge a close relationship between an entity 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
57
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
or a professional and the regulator and law enforcement generally which helps in 
keeping criminals at bay. 
(ii) An entity or a professional must establish an appropriate record in respect of its or 
his or her dealings with applicants for business. The requirement, in essence, is to 
identify a customer – natural or legal, permanent or occasional – and to verify the 
identification through the use of reliable, independent source documents, data or 
information. In respect of a customer that is a legal person, the entity must ensure that it 
verifies the authority of the person purporting to act on behalf of the customer and 
identify and verify the identity of that person. It must obtain the details of the person 
purporting to represent the legal person and, in effect, conduct CDD on him or her. 
With respect to the legal person so represented, it is important that the entity or 
professional obtains information on and verifies the legal status of the legal person— 
by securing adequate proof of formation or incorporation or similar evidence 
of establishment or existence; 
by securing the relevant accurate name, the names of any trustees in the case 
of trusts, addresses, directors (or equivalent position holders) and any 
instrument that shows the power to bind the legal person. 
(iii) It is also important that, in respect of a legal person, the entity or professional 
identifies the beneficial owner thereof and verifies his or her identity through the use of 
relevant data or other information obtained from a reliable source with which the entity 
or professional is satisfied. The entity or professional must seek to understand the 
ownership and control structure of the applicant for business by establishing the actual 
persons who hold a controlling interest in the applicant’s business or who direct the 
mind of the applicant in terms of the actual management of the company. It is therefore 
imperative that in any business relationship the entity determines upfront whether the 
customer is acting on his or her own behalf or on behalf of another person and then take 
the necessary CDD. 
(iv) CDD entails adopting a risk-based approach to enable an entity or a professional 
to make a risk assessment in relation to a particular customer who is an applicant for 
business or a customer. This will assist the entity or professional to make an informed 
determination of the extent of the identification and other CDD information to be 
sought, how such information is to be verified and the extent to which the resulting 
relationship is to be monitored. Section 19 of this Code, in effect, provides the essential 
guidelines for adopting a risk-based approach to CDD and entities and professionals 
(as applicable) are required to comply with the guidelines; indeed they may wish to 
include the essence of the guidelines as part of their internal control systems. 
(v) 
It should be appreciated that identifying an applicant for business or a customer as 
engaging in a higher risk activity concerning money laundering, terrorist financing or 
other financial crime does not necessarily mean that the applicant for business or 
customer is a money launderer or is involved in terrorist financing or other criminal 
financial activity. Conversely, identifying an applicant for business or customer carrying 
a lower risk of involvement in money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial 
crime does not necessarily mean that the applicant for business or customer is not a 
money launderer or is not engaged in terrorist financing or other criminal financial 
activity. Thus where, for instance, a customer engages in occasional financial 
transactions below the established financial threshold but in a series that appear to be 
linked, serious consideration should be given to not lowering or simplifying the CDD 
measures in respect of that customer even if the customer is well-known to the entity 
Anti-Money Laundering and
58
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
providing the relevant facility. It must always be remembered that those bent on abusing 
the legitimate facilities offered by financial institutions in particular go to great lengths 
to identify ‘loopholes’ in the internal control systems of the institution. It is therefore 
advisable that even in cases of known identified low risk customers full random CDD 
measures are applied to transactions relating to them. In any case, simplified CDD 
measures must not be applied where a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist 
financing or specific higher risk scenario exists; where there is a suspicion of money 
laundering or terrorist financing, this must be reported immediately in accordance with 
the reporting requirements of the DTOA,PCCA, the 2002 Order, AMLR and this Code 
(as applicable). 
(vi) Within the broad context of the risk-based approach to CDD, it is important to 
develop a risk profile of applicants for business and customers. This requires that the 
entity or professional— 
 
collects appropriate and relevant CDD information relating to identity and 
business relationship; 
 
prepares and records (on the basis of the CDD information) an initial risk 
assessment respecting the applicant for business or the customer; 
 
determines (using the initial risk assessment) the extent to which verification 
of the applicant’s or customer’s identity needs to be undertaken; and 
 
periodically updates, upon the establishment of a business relationship, the 
CDD information that it holds in respect of a customer and adjusting the risk 
assessment as the relationship develops. 
(vii) The risks associated with money laundering and terrorist financing may be 
measured in different categories. This assists in developing a strategy to effectively 
manage potential risks by enabling entities and professionals to subject applicants for 
business and customers to proportionate controls and oversight. These different 
categories may be cited as— 
 
customer risk; 
 
product/service risk; and 
country/geographic risk.
Customer Risk: Within the context of its own internal control systems, an entity is 
expected to determine the potential risk that an applicant for business or a customer 
poses and the potential impact of any mitigating factors in relation to that assessment. 
An application of the risk variables may mitigate or exacerbate any risk assessment 
made; ultimately, it is a question of applying good judgment in any particular 
circumstance or situation. In assessing risks that may be associated with a customer, the 
following considerations should be taken into account— 
 
customers with complex structures where the nature of the ‘entity’ or 
relationship sought makes it difficult to identify the actual beneficial owner or 
the person or persons with controlling interests. An example may be cited as 
a structure or relationship involving a mixture of companies and trusts or 
simply a number of different companies. Relationships involving such 
structures present a higher risk in the absence of a clear and legitimate 
commercial rationale for the structure. The use of bearer shares may also fall 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
59
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
within this context, especially where the jurisdiction of incorporation of the 
relevant company has no requirement for immobilising bearer shares;
cash or equivalent intensive businesses, including those that generate 
significant amounts of cash or undertake large cash transactions, money 
service businesses (such as money transfer agents, bureaux de change and 
money transfer or remittance facilities), casinos, betting and other gambling 
or game related activities (which are generally not allowed in the Territory) 
and monetary instruments with a high value of funds, especially where not 
fully explained; 
customers who conduct their business relationships or transactions in such 
unusual circumstances as where a significant and unexplained distance 
between the location of the customer and the entity, and frequent and 
unexplained movement of accounts to different entities or of funds between 
entities in different jurisdictions; 
where there is insufficient commercial rationale for the transaction or 
business relationship; 
where there is a request to associate undue levels of secrecy with a 
transaction or relationship or, in the case of a legal person, a reluctance to 
provide information regarding the beneficial owners or controllers; 
situation where the source of funds and/or the origin of wealth cannot be 
easily verified, or where the audit trail has been broken or unnecessarily 
layered; 
delegation of authority by the applicant for business or customer, for 
instance, through a power of attorney; 
where the customer is a charity or other non-profit making organisation 
which is not subject to AML/CFT monitoring or supervision, especially those 
that engage in cross-border activities; 
where intermediaries who are not subject to adequate AML/CFT compliance 
measures are used and in respect of whom there is inadequate supervision; 
customers who may be PEPs;
the origin of the funds or source of wealth relates to a jurisdiction on which 
there is currently an embargo or a sanction: these embargos and sanctions 
would normally relate to those imposed by the United Nations and the 
European Union (which are generally extended to the Territory by the UK 
and published in the BVI Gazette), although entities may decide to take 
account of other sanctions, embargos or restrictions imposed by reputable 
financial institutions, including parent companies. 
Product/Service Risk: 
A risk assessment also includes assessing the risks associated with the products and 
services offered by an entity. It is therefore important that a financial institution, in 
particular, should pay attention to new or innovative products or services that it 
normally does not offer, but which make use of the institution’s services to deliver the 
product. Accordingly, a risk assessment under this category may embody taking the 
following into account— 
Anti-Money Laundering and
60
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
where the Agency, Commission or other credible source identifies a 
particular service as potentially high risk: this would include international 
correspondent banking services that involve, for instance, commercial 
payments for non-customers and pouch activities, and international private 
banking services; 
 
services that involve banknotes and precious metal trading and delivery; 
 
services that seek to provide account anonymity or layers of opacity, or can 
readily transcend international borders: this latter category would include 
online banking facilities, stored value cards, international wire transfers, 
private investment companies and trusts. 
Country/Geographic Risk: 
In conjunction with other risk factors, country (or jurisdiction) risk requires an entity to 
make a good assessment as regards the potential for money laundering and terrorist 
financing risks. Generally the factors that serve as useful guides in making a 
determination whether a country poses a higher risk include the following— 
 
situations where there is an embargo, a sanction or other restriction imposed 
on a country by the United Nations or the EU; these may relate to persons 
(natural and legal) and transactions and are generally extended to the 
Territory by the UK and are published in the BVI Gazette; the scope of the 
embargo, sanction or other restriction may not necessarily relate to financial 
prohibitions; 
 
countries that are identified by credible institutions such as the FATF, 
CFATF or other regional style bodies, IMF, WB or Egmont as lacking 
appropriate AML/CFT laws, policies and compliance measures, or providing 
funding or support for terrorist activities that have designated terrorist 
organisations operating within them, or having significant levels of 
corruption or other criminal activity (such as abductions and kidnappings for 
ransom). 
In assessing jurisdictions which may have a high level of corruption, regard may be had 
to publications by Transparency International, in particular its annual corruption 
perception index. There may be other credible organisations (not mentioned) which an 
entity may wish to consider in making an assessment risk in respect of an applicant for 
business or a customer. The ultimate objective is to ensure that all the relevant risk 
factors are considered in dealings with an applicant for business or a customer. 
----------------------------------------- 
As noted earlier, certain variables come into play which may impact on the level of risk. 
These variables may increase or decrease the perceived risk that may be associated to 
an applicant for business or a customer or indeed a transaction. These essentially would 
relate to— 
 
the purpose of an account or a business relationship: regular account 
openings involving small amounts or simply to facilitate routine consumer 
transactions tend to pose a lower risk compared to account openings 
designed to facilitate large cash transactions from an unknown source; 
 
the size and volume of assets to be deposited: an unusual high level of assets 
or large transactions not generally associated with an applicant for business 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
61
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
or a customer within a designated profile may need to be considered as 
higher risk; similarly, an otherwise high profile applicant for business or 
customer involved in low level assets or low value transactions may be 
treated as lower risk; 
the level of regulation, compliance and supervision: less risk may be 
associated with an entity that is subject to regulation in a jurisdiction with 
satisfactory AML/CFT compliance regime compared to one that is 
unregulated or only subject to minimal regulation; thus publicly traded 
companies subject to regulation in their home jurisdictions pose minimal 
AML/CFT risks and may therefore not be subject to stringent account 
opening CDD measures or transaction monitoring; 
the regularity or duration of the relationship: long standing business 
relations with the same entity may pose less AML/CFT risk and therefore may 
not require a stringent application of the CDD measures; 
the familiarity with the jurisdiction in which the applicant for business or 
customer is located: this entails adequate knowledge of the laws and the 
regulatory oversight which govern the applicant for business or customer, 
considering the entity’s own operations within that jurisdiction; and 
the use of intermediaries or other structures with no known commercial or 
other rationale or which simply obscure the relationship and create 
unnecessary complexities and lack of transparency: the risks associated with 
such relationships or transactions generally increase the risk profile of the 
applicant for business or customer. 
(viii) It is particularly important to note that conducting on-going CDD on a business 
relationship is vital to forestalling acts of money laundering and terrorist financing and 
other activities designed to abuse the facilities offered by an entity or a professional. 
Thus such on-going CDD should include a scrutiny and synthesising of transactions 
engaged in throughout the period of the business relationship in order to ensure that 
those transactions are consistent with the entity’s or professional’s knowledge of the 
customer, the customer’s business and risk profile and the source of funds. In addition, 
any data or other information received and kept under the CDD process must be kept 
up-to-date and relevant through a regular review and assessment of current record, 
especially as they relate to higher risk customers and business relationships. 
(ix) The CDD measures outlined in section 19 must be viewed as providing the 
minimum standards in dealings with applicants for business and customers. Entities and 
professionals are free to apply additional CDD measures; ultimately, any formal or 
informal measure an entity or professional adopts with respect to any particular 
customer or transaction may depend on several factors, including the risk associated 
with the customer as an individual, the jurisdiction with which it or he or she is 
connected, the product in issue and the service to be performed. The objective is to 
ensure that there is sufficient information to identify a pattern of expected business 
activity as well as to identify any unusual, complex or higher risk activity or transaction 
that may raise a red flag to money laundering, terrorist financing or other criminal 
financial conduct.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Anti-Money Laundering and
62
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Requirements of enhanced customer due diligence 
20. (1) For the purposes of this Code, a reference to “enhanced customer due 
diligence” refers to the steps additional to customer due diligence which an entity or a 
professional is required to perform in dealings with an applicant for business or a 
customer in relation to a business relationship or one-off transaction in order to forestall 
and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime. 
 (2) Every entity or professional shall engage in enhanced customer due 
diligence in its or his or her dealings with an applicant for business or a customer who, 
or in respect of a transaction which, is determined to be a higher risk applicant for 
business or customer, or transaction, irrespective of the nature or form of the relationship 
or transaction. 
 (3) An entity or a professional shall adopt such additional measures with respect 
to higher risk business relationships or transactions as are necessary— 
(a) to increase the level of awareness of applicants for business or 
customers who, or transactions which, present a higher risk; 
(b) to increase the level of knowledge of an applicant for business or a 
customer with whom it or he or she deals or a transaction it or he or she 
processes; 
(c) to escalate the level of internal approval for the opening of accounts or 
establishment of other relationships; and 
(d) to increase the level of on-going controls and frequency of reviews of 
established business relationships. 
 (4) Where a business relationship or transaction involves— 
(a) a politically exposed person; 
(b) a business activity, ownership structure, anticipated, or volume or type 
of transaction that is complex or unusual, having regard to the risk 
profile of the applicant for business or customer, or where the business 
activity involves an unusual pattern of transaction or does not 
demonstrate any apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose; or 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(c) a person who is located in a country that is either considered or 
identified as a high risk country or that has international sanctions, 
embargos or other restrictions imposed on it, 
an entity or a professional shall consider the applicant for business or customer to 
present a higher risk in respect of whom enhanced due diligence shall be performed. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Enhanced customer due diligence (ECDD) must be viewed as an additional 
precautionary measure designed to assist in truly identifying a customer and verifying 
the information relating to him or her and ensuring that the risks that may be associated 
with the customer are minimal or manageable; this is in addition to ensuring that the 
source of funds or wealth is legitimate. Not all relationships or transactions are 
expected to be monitored the same way; the degree of monitoring employed will very 
much depend on the perceived risks presented by a customer or a transaction, the 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
63
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
products or services being used and the location of the customer and the transactions. 
For customers presenting a higher risk, it is important to raise the level of the on-going 
monitoring in relation to them as well as the review periods with respect to the 
relationship. Any changes in the particulars of any established relationship or customer 
must be appropriately documented and such record must be updated on an on-going 
basis (see section 21 below). 
(ii) The imperatives outlined in section 20(4) must be adhered to as necessary 
measures to reduce the potential for inadvertently aiding a money laundering or 
terrorist financing activity. While, for instance, a PEP may be personally known to an 
entity and such PEP may be highly regarded, the possibility cannot be discounted of 
unscrupulous persons preying on such PEP to advance their criminal activities through 
such PEP unknown to the PEP. It is not an entity’s or a professional’s function to 
protect a PEP, but it is an entity’s or a professional’s function to prevent the direct or 
indirect abuse of its or his or her business facilities.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Updating customer due diligence information 
21. (1) Where an entity or a professional makes a determination that a business 
relationship presents a higher risk, it shall review and keep up-to-date the customer due 
diligence information in respect of the relevant customer at least once every year. 
 (2) In cases where a business relationship is assessed to present normal or low 
risk, an entity or a professional with whom the relationship exists shall review and keep 
up-to-date the customer due diligence information in respect of that customer at least 
once every 4 years. (Amended by S.I. 75/2015) 
 (3) In circumstances where the business relationship with a customer terminates 
prior to the period specified in subsection (2), the entity or professional shall, to the 
extent possible in respect of that customer, review and keep up-to-date the customer due 
diligence information as of the date of the termination of the relationship. (Amended by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
 
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where an entity or a 
professional forms the opinion upon careful assessment that an existing customer 
presents a high risk or engages in transactions that are of such a material nature as to 
pose a high risk, it or he or she shall apply customer due diligence or, where necessary, 
enhanced customer due diligence, measures and review and keep up-to-date the existing 
customer’s due diligence information. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 
(5) The requirements of subsection (4) apply irrespective of the periods stated in 
subsections (1) and (2). (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 
(6) For the purposes of subsection (4), “existing customer” refers to a customer 
that had a business relationship with an entity or a professional prior to the enactment of 
this Code and which continued after the date of the coming into force of this Code. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
It is a matter for an entity or a professional to determine the manner, form and 
occasion when it or he or she updates the information relative to a business relationship. 
This may entail contacting the customer concerned to ask relevant questions relating to 
the relationship and updating changes that would have occurred, or to do that during a 
Anti-Money Laundering and
64
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
specific or routine dealing with the customer. It helps to inform the customer that such a 
process is simply a part of the entity’s or professional’s statutory duty to maintain up to-
date information with respect to all business relationships. 
(ii) It may well be that a business relationship established with a customer terminates 
before an entity or a professional is able to comply with the review and updating of the 
requisite customer due diligence information in the terms provided in section 21(1) or 
(2). Termination of a business relationship may arise for varying reasons some of which 
may not make it possible for an entity or a professional to review and update relevant 
information relating to the customer. Yet in some instances the entity or professional 
may already be in possession or be aware of or be able to access relevant information 
relating to the customer. In the case of the former, the entity or professional need only 
record its satisfaction on the customer’s file that it has done what was reasonable in the 
circumstances and had been unable to obtain any information to update the customer’s 
due diligence information. In the latter case, the entity or professional must record on 
the customer’s file the information that it is in possession or is aware of or has been able 
to access. It is for the entity or professional to satisfy itself or himself or herself, in either 
case, that it or he or she has taken reasonable measures to comply with the requirements 
of section 21(3). The relevant record of the customer must be kept and maintained in 
accordance with the record keeping requirements of the AMLR and this Code. 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(iii) While it is required that an entity or a professional must effect the necessary 
review and updating of customer due diligence information for the periods stated in 
section 21(1) and (2), depending on whether a customer is assessed as low or high risk, 
subsection (4) provides the additional requirement to perform a similar review and 
update in respect of customers with whom an entity or a professional had had a business 
relationship prior to the effective date of this Code (20th February, 2008) which 
continued beyond the effective date. However, this requirement applies only in the 
circumstances where the entity or professional forms the view that any of those 
customers presents some risk or engages in transactions that are of a material nature as 
to present some risk. It is a question of judgment on the part of the entity or professional 
concerned to make that assessment and come to a conclusion. In such cases, the entity 
must not wait for the period specified in section 21(1) or (2) to mature before effecting 
the required review and updating of the customer’s due diligence information. Where an 
existing customer is not assessed as presenting a high risk or to be engaged in any 
material transaction that has the potential to present a high risk, the entity or 
professional need only comply with the requirements of section 21(2). (Inserted by S.I. 
4/2009) 
(iv) The customer, it should be noted, is in effect the applicant for business and it is in 
relation to that applicant that the review and updating of customer due diligence 
information is required. Thus where, for instance, a mutual fund is a customer of a 
registered agent, the registered agent (as the relevant entity) is obligated to effect the 
necessary review and updating of customer due diligence information on the fund as the 
applicant for business. It is therefore essential for every entity or professional to 
determine from the outset of establishing a business relationship as to who actually is 
the applicant for business in the relationship and proceed accordingly in ensuring 
compliance with the requirements of section 21.] (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Politically exposed persons 
22. (1) An entity or a professional shall— 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
65
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(a) have, as part of its or his or her internal control systems, appropriate 
risk-based policies, processes and procedures for determining whether 
an applicant for business or a customer is a politically exposed person; 
(b) in dealings with a politically exposed person, take such reasonable 
measures as are necessary to establish the source of funds or wealth 
respecting such person; 
(c) ensure that senior management approval is sought for establishing or 
maintaining a business relationship with a politically exposed person; 
(d) ensure a process of regular monitoring of the business relationship with 
a politically exposed person; 
(e) in circumstances where junior staff deal with politically exposed 
persons, ensure that there is in place adequate supervisory oversight in 
that regard; and 
(f) ensure that the requirements of paragraphs (a) to (d) apply in relation to 
a customer who becomes a politically exposed person during the course 
of an existing business relationship. 
 (2) Where a third party acts for a politically exposed person in establishing a 
business relationship or performing a transaction, the entity or professional shall 
nevertheless perform the necessary enhanced customer due diligence measures as if the 
business relationship or transaction is being made directly with the politically exposed 
person. 
 (3) Subject to subsection (4), a customer who ceases to qualify as a PEP by 
virtue of no longer holding the post or relationship that qualified him or her as a PEP 
shall, for the purposes of this Code, cease to be so treated after a period of 2 years 
following the day on which he or she ceased to qualify as a PEP. 
 (4) Notwithstanding the fact that a customer has ceased to be treated as a PEP 
by virtue of subsection (3), an entity or a professional may, where it or he or she 
considers it appropriate to guard against any potential risks that may be associated with 
the customer, continue to treat the customer as a PEP for such period as the entity or 
professional considers relevant during the currency of the relationship, but in any case 
not longer than 10 years from the date the customer ceased to qualify as a PEP. 
 (5) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with a requirement of this 
section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
PEPs may be domestic or foreign and generally comprise persons who are Heads 
of State/government, cabinet ministers/secretaries of state, judges (including magistrates 
where they exercise enormous jurisdiction), senior political party functionaries and 
lower political party functionaries with an influencing connection in high ranking 
government circles, military leaders and heads of police and national security services, 
senior public officials and heads of public utilities/corporations, members of ruling 
royal families, senior representatives of religious organisations where their functions 
are connected with political, judicial, security or administrative responsibilities. 
Establishing whether or not an individual qualifies as a PEP may not be easy; much is 
acquired from interviews and answers given at the time of a request to establish a 
Anti-Money Laundering and
66
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
business relationship or enter into a transaction. The mere fact that an individual falls 
within the PEP bracket does not necessarily mean that the individual is connected to a 
wrongful action; it is a question of good judgment, using the combination of the CDD 
and the ECDD measures. There are quite a number of website search engines which 
specialise in identifying PEPs and establishing whether they are connected to a corrupt 
activity or some other unlawful act; entities and professionals may consider these 
sources helpful in circumstances where other available means have not proved helpful 
or sufficiently satisfactory. Also reference may be made to Transparency International’s 
annual Corruption Perception Index which lists countries according to their perceived 
levels of corruption. A new customer may not qualify as a PEP, but may so qualify in the 
future and it is therefore important, through the information updates of customers or 
through other sources, to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Code as they 
relate to PEPs. 
(ii) Family members and close associates of PEPs also qualify as PEPs and the same 
CDD and ECDD measures in relation to establishing business relationships and 
engaging in transactions apply to them. Family relations generally cover persons in 
consanguine and affinity relations with PEPs; close associates would comprise personal 
advisers/consultants to, close business colleagues and friends likely to benefit from 
association with, PEPs, as well as PEP-supported charities and other non-profit making 
organisations. It should be noted that not everyone falling within this net poses a risk for 
money laundering or terrorist financing, but this must be shifted from the outset of 
establishing a business relationship or engaging in a transaction through the established 
CDD and ECDD measures. The CDD and ECDD measures relative to PEPs do not 
prohibit business dealings or relationships with PEPs. However, because of the serious 
potential business risks that they pose, compliance with the CDD and ECDD measures 
is requisite. 
(iii) The following must be considered as indicators in establishing whether or not a 
customer is a PEP— 
 
the country of origin of the customer;
 
the stability of the country of origin and whether it is prone to corruption and 
other criminal activities such as abduction and kidnapping for ransom; 
whether the country of origin is cash based;
whether the country of origin has in place adequate AML/CFT measures, 
including “know your customer” (KYC) requirements; 
 
where large amounts are presented for establishing the business relationship, 
the form in which they are presented; 
 
whether the country of origin is under any established sanction, embargo or 
other restriction or whether any such sanction, embargo or restriction is 
specifically imposed on the customer (entities and professionals are 
encouraged to conduct regular checks of the BVI Gazette to note any new 
lists on the UN and EU sanctions and embargo regimes, including 
modifications thereto). 
In any instant where a customer is identified as a PEP, the necessary CDD and ECDD 
measures must be appropriately applied. 
(iv) A customer ceases to be treated as a PEP 2 years after he or she ceased to qualify 
as a PEP. However, a customer may continue to be treated as a PEP in circumstances 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
67
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
where an entity or a professional considers that the customer may still pose potential 
risks, such as where there are on-going legal proceedings relating to him or her or 
where there may be lingering issues in relation to his or her family members or close 
associates or where there are pending investigations in relation to him or her, etc. 
Whether or not to continue to treat a customer as a PEP is a judgment call for the entity 
or professional, having regard to all the circumstances concerning the relationship. It is 
expected, however, that any decision to continue treating a customer as a PEP after the 
customer has ceased to so qualify under section 22(3) will be taken on an objective risk 
sensitive basis. Also it does not necessarily mean that when a person ceases to be a PEP 
there are no longer any risks associated with the person. Accordingly, every entity and 
professional that has a business relationship with a PEP who has legally ceased to exist 
as such must nevertheless continue to monitor the activities of the "PEP” in the context 
of the business relationship to satisfy itself or himself or herself that there has not been 
any unusual changes to the “PEP’s” activities. This means that the entity or 
professional must continue to perform the requisite due diligence measures required 
under this Code. 
(v) 
In a case where an entity or a professional continues to treat a customer as a PEP 
pursuant to section 22(4) and such treatment lasts for a period of ten years from the date 
the customer ceased to qualify as a PEP under section 22(3), the treatment must be 
terminated, or the relationship terminated, where the entity or the professional forms the 
opinion that continuing the business relationship poses serious risks to its or his or her 
business.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
General verification 
23. (1) An entity or a professional shall establish the identity of an applicant for 
business or a customer with respect to a relationship or transaction by— 
(a) carrying out the verification itself; 
(b) by carrying out the verification before or during the course of 
establishing a business relationship or engaging in a transaction; 
(c) relying on verification conducted by another entity or a professional in 
accordance with this Code; or 
(d) in the case of a legal person that is a subsidiary, by relying on 
verification conducted by its parent company; and 
(e) ensuring that, where reliance is placed on an independent data source, 
the source, scope and quality of the data received is reasonably 
acceptable. 
 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1)(b), where it becomes necessary in order not 
to disrupt the normal conduct of business for an entity or a professional to complete the 
verification after the establishment of a business relationship, it may do so on the 
conditions that— 
(a) the verification is completed within a reasonable period not exceeding 
30 days from the date of the establishment of the business relationship; 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (b) prior to the establishment of the business relationship, the entity or 
professional adopts appropriate risk management processes and 
Anti-Money Laundering and
68
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
procedures, having regard to the context and circumstances in which the 
business relationship is being developed; (Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(c) following the establishment of the business relationship, the money 
laundering or terrorist financing risks that may be associated with the 
business relationship are properly and effectively monitored and 
managed. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 
(2A) Where an entity or a professional forms the opinion that it would be unable 
to complete a verification within the time prescribed in subsection (2)(a), it shall, at least 
7 days before the end of the prescribed period, notify the Agency in writing of that fact 
outlining the reasons for its opinion, and the Agency may grant the entity or professional 
an extension in writing for an additional period not exceeding 30 days. (Inserted by S.I. 
4/2009) 
 
(2B) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), appropriate risk management 
processes and procedures that an entity or a professional may adopt may include, but is 
not limited to, the following— 
(a) measures which place a limitation on the number, types and amount of 
transactions that the entity or professional may permit with respect to 
the business relationship; 
(b) requiring management approval before the business relationship is 
established; and
(c) measures which require the monitoring of a large, complex or unusual 
transaction which the entity or professional considers not to be normal 
for that type of transaction. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(2C) Where an entity or a professional establishes a business relationship pursuant 
to subsection (2) and it or he or she— 
(a) discovers or suspects, upon subsequent verification, that the applicant 
for business or customer is or may be involved in money laundering or 
terrorist financing; 
(b) fails to secure the full cooperation of the applicant for business or 
customer in carrying out or completing its or his or her verification of 
the applicant for business or customer; or 
(c) is unable to carry out the required customer due diligence or, as the case 
may be, enhanced customer due diligence, requirements in respect of 
the applicant for business, 
the entity or professional shall—
 (i) terminate the business relationship; 
 (ii) submit, in relation to paragraph (a), a report to the Agency 
outlining its or his or her discovery or suspicion; and 
 (iii) submit, in relation to paragraph (b) or (c), a report to the Agency if 
it or he or she forms the opinion that the conduct of the applicant 
for business or customer raises concerns regarding money 
laundering or terrorist financing. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
69
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(3) Whenever a business relationship is to be formed or a significant one-off 
transaction undertaken which involves an entity or a professional and an intermediary, 
each entity or professional needs to consider its or his or her own position and to ensure 
that its or his or her own obligations regarding verification and records are duly 
discharged. 
 (4) Depending on the legal personality of an applicant for business and the 
capacity in which the applicant is applying, an entity or a professional undertaking 
verification shall establish to its or his or her reasonable satisfaction that every applicant 
for business, including joint applicants, relevant to the application for business actually 
exists. 
 
(5) Without prejudice to subsection (4) where an entity’s or a professional’s 
compliance with this Code implies a large number of applicants for business, it may be 
sufficient to carry out verification to the letter on a limited group. (Amended by S.I. 
4/2009) 
 (6) Pursuant to subsections (3) and (4), verification may be conducted on the 
senior members of a family, the principal shareholders or the main directors of a 
company. 
 (6A) For purposes of verification of identity under this Code, an entity or a 
professional may use such electronic or digital means as it considers appropriate to carry 
out the verification. (Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (6B) Where, for the purposes of subsection (6A), an entity or a professional relies 
on the electronic or digital or other data of an organisation to carry out verification, it 
shall ensure that the organisation— 
(a) is independently established and operates independently; 
(b) uses a range of positive information sources that can be called upon to 
link an applicant or a customer to both current and historical data; 
(c) accesses negative information sources such as databases relating to 
fraud and deceased persons; 
(d) accesses a wide range of alert data sources; 
(e) has transparent processes that enable an entity or a professional to know 
what checks have been carried out, what the results of those checks 
were and to be able to determine the level of satisfaction provided by 
the checks; 
(f) has not been convicted of a criminal offence or sanctioned for breach of 
data or providing misleading data; and 
(g) is independent of the person to whom the verification relates. 
(Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (6C) In addition to the requirements outlined in subsection (6B), the entity or 
professional must be satisfied that the information obtained and stored by the 
organisation is sufficiently extensive, accurate and reliable. (Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (6D) In the case of electronic or digital verification of identity in relation to a non-
face to face transaction, an entity or a professional need not treat an applicant for 
business or a customer as high risk unless it or he or she is satisfied that the applicant or 
Anti-Money Laundering and
70
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
customer presents a high risk or is otherwise engaged in money laundering or terrorist 
financing. (Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (7) An entity which, or a professional who, does not comply with this section 
commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
General Verification 
(i) 
As previously noted, it is important in every business relationship or transaction to 
obtain information on the identity of an applicant for business or customer and verify 
such information. This is to be carried out at the inception of the relationship and each 
time an applicant’s or a customer’s information changes, including any change in 
identification. In the case of a legal person, the changed circumstances, especially those 
relating to beneficial ownership or control, must be fully noted, verified and recorded. 
Information update is a relevant requirement that an entity or a professional must not 
dispense with as it is very crucial to an effective AML/CFT regime and forms part of the 
obligatory measures required of an entity or a professional. It is also important that in 
circumstances where there is a change in the third parties ( or in the beneficial 
ownership or control of third parties) on whose behalf an applicant for business or 
customer acts, this should be noted and verified by the entity or professional concerned. 
(ii) As already noted in paragraph (i) above, it is essential that the verification process 
is conducted from the inception of forming a business relationship; this will extend to 
one-off transactions as considered feasible, having regard to the risk assessments. 
However, it is recognised that there may be instances when it might not be feasible to 
conduct and complete a verification process at the time of establishing a business 
relationship in order to ensure the smooth and normal conduct of business. In such a 
situation, it is permissible to complete the verification process following the 
establishment of the business relationship. The circumstances in which such a situation 
may arise include— 
 
non-face-to-face business (where the applicant for business is not physically 
present before the entity or professional); 
 
securities transactions where rapid transactions are required to be performed 
according to the market conditions at the time of establishing the business 
relationship; 
 
life insurance business with respect to the verification of the beneficiary 
under the policy; however, in such a case the requisite verification must be 
carried out before any payout or the exercise of vested rights under the 
policy; 
 
court-ordered payments or settlements where the beneficiary under the order 
is not immediately available; however, in such a case no payment or transfer 
of funds must take place until the verification process is fully effected, unless 
the court otherwise directs. 
It is a matter entirely for an entity or a professional to consider any additional 
circumstances in which it would not be feasible to conclude a verification process prior 
to establishing a business relationship. Where an entity or a professional permits a 
business relationship before effecting the necessary verification, it or he or she must 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
71
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
adopt the relevant risk management processes and procedures, having regard to the 
circumstance in which the relationship is being developed. These may relate to putting 
necessary limitations on the number, type and/or amount of transaction that may be 
performed and the monitoring of large or complex transactions outside of the expected 
norms of the type of business relationship concerned. 
(iiA) It should be noted that the effect of a termination of a business relationship as 
provided in subsection (2C) in circumstances where there is a suspicion of money 
laundering on the part of an applicant for business or a customer must be carried out in 
a manner so as not to tip off the applicant or customer. If an entity or a professional 
forms the opinion that an immediate termination of relationship might tip off the 
applicant or customer, it or he or she must liaise with and seek the advice of the Agency 
and act according to the Agency’s advice. The entity or professional must, however, 
freeze the relationship prior to any formal termination and no further business must be 
transacted in relation to the applicant or customer in violation of the requirements of 
section 23(2C) of the Code. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
Specific Verification 
(iii) This Code makes provision for verification of the identities of individuals and legal 
persons who are applicants for business or customers of an entity or a professional. 
Section 24 specifically deals with verification requirements pertaining to an individual 
applicant for business or customer. The verification requirements relating to a legal 
person are dealt with in section 25 which also outlines information that is required with 
respect to a company and a partnership. Section 27 outlines the obligation for 
verification of underlying principals of legal persons, while section 28 deals with 
verification with respect to trusts. The obligation outlined in respect of each section 
must be complied with. 
Methods of Verification 
(iv) The methods by which verification may be carried out will generally vary, 
depending on the type, nature, size and complexity of business concerned, including 
origin of the applicant or customer. The purpose of verification is primarily to establish 
identity of individuals and legal persons and legal arrangements and other related 
matters outlined in the sections. It is designed to confirm that persons are who they 
claim to be and documents presented in that and other regards support whatever claim 
is made. 
(v) 
Accordingly, verification of information received or required by an entity or 
professional may be carried out in physical paper form or by electronic/digital means. 
This may include the use of propriety software and/or programme by an entity or a 
professional 
to 
conduct 
electronic/digital 
verification. 
The 
reference 
to 
“electronic/digital means” (including variations of the term)in this Code should be 
given a broad interpretation to include verification by digital, electrical, magnetic, 
optical, electromagnetic, biometric and photonic form. The requirement for verification 
refers to the process of checking reliable, independent source documentation, data or 
information to confirm the veracity of any identifying information that an entity or a 
professional obtains during the process of identification. Accordingly, wherever in this 
Code verification of identity is required, such verification may be carried out by 
electronic/digital means in accordance with the Explanation in this section. 
(vi) It is not sufficient for an entity or a professional to rely on an applicant’s or 
customer’s claim as to who he or she is; further verification procedures must be put in 
motion to truly establish the actual existence of the applicant or the customer. In that 
Anti-Money Laundering and
72
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
regard, reliance on verification may be placed on reliable independent source 
documentary or other tangible or acceptable evidence. Effort must be made to test the 
reliability of the source of evidence. That means a check should be made of the 
reliability, integrity, independence and authority of the source of the evidence and of the 
evidence itself, bearing in mind that documentary evidence may be susceptible to 
forgery. 
(vii) As part of the verification process, additional measures may be adopted to check 
against fraud and other criminal behaviour, such as those routinely undertaken by 
entities and professionals in their business relationships. These measures may include: 
 
requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
applicant’s or customer’s name with a regulated banking or financing 
institution in the Virgin Islands or based in a recognised jurisdiction listed in 
Schedule 2of this Code, or with an assessed low risk jurisdiction; 
 
verifying such additional aspects of the applicant’s or customer’s identity as is 
required under this Code and as the entity or professional may consider 
necessary; 
 
telephone contact with the applicant or customer, prior to opening an account, 
on a home or business number which has been verified electronically, digitally 
or otherwise, or a “welcome call” to the applicant or customer before a 
business transaction is permitted, using it to verify additional aspects of 
personal identity information that have been previously provided during the 
establishment of the business relationship or setting up of the account; 
 
communicating with the applicant or customer at an address that has been 
verified (which may take the form of a direct mailing of account opening 
documentation to him or her which, in full or in part, is required to be returned 
completed or acknowledged without alteration); 
 
internet sign-on following verification procedures where the applicant or 
customer uses security codes, tokens and/or other passwords which have been 
set up during account opening and provided by mail (or secure delivery) to the 
named individual at an independently verified address; 
 
other card or account activation procedures; and 
 
requiring copy documents to be certified by an appropriate person, bearing in 
mind the provisions of section 30 of this Code and the Explanation thereto.  
(viii) In circumstances where verification relates to a person, other than an individual, 
the identity of the person may be verified electronically/digitally by relying on 
documentation that is directly sourced from an officially established institution (such as 
a registry or other body designated or established under law or recognised by a 
government) with which the person is incorporated or registered and/or an organisation 
that the person is a member of or has other affiliation with. In that context, it is 
important that an entity or a professional seeks to verify the identity of the individual or 
individuals connected with the person being verified by electronic/digital means or by 
reference to documents that are independently sourced. The entity or professional must 
be able to demonstrate that it has both verified that the person exists and the individual 
seeking to establish the business relationship on behalf of that person is in fact that 
individual. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
73
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(ix) An entity or a professional may conduct an electronic/digital verification of a 
person by relying on the electronic/digital and other data of an organisation, but only if 
the conditions outlined in section 23(6B) and (6C) are satisfied. Where such reliance is 
made, it is important that the entity or professional records its satisfaction of the 
conditions being met by the organisation. This may be carried out on a one-off basis and 
need not be carried out on each occasion that reliance is placed on the same 
organisation. However, the entity or professional must engage in an ongoing monitoring 
process to keep track of any changes in the stipulated conditions and to act accordingly. 
The ongoing monitoring may be measured on a cyclical basis whereby the entity 
satisfies itself of compliance or non-compliance with the stipulated conditions at least 
once every three years. The record maintained by the entity or professional will serve as 
evidence of compliance in the event of an inspection or other regulatory requirements.  
(x) 
It is acceptable for an entity or a professional to rely on and accept from a person 
that is the subject of verification an offer to access electronic/digital data or source with 
which the person is affiliated if the data or source is reliable and independent of the 
person in terms of its collection, administration and management and is in the custody of 
an organisation that meets the criteria set out in paragraph (ix) above. However, the 
entity or professional must weigh any potential or perceived drawbacks that may taint 
the independence and integrity of the data or source and determine whether it should 
accept such an offer. The entity or professional only needs to ensure that the appropriate 
checks on reliability, independence and accuracy of the data or source have been 
satisfied whilst complying with the conditions stipulated in section 23 (6B) and (6C). 
(xi) Determining the reliability and independence of electronic/digital data or source 
may not always be a straightforward matter. To assist an entity or a professional to 
make the proper judgment calls, it is important that account is taken of the following 
matters(although additional factors may apply which should, in such a situation, be 
taken into account as well): 
 
accuracy of the information provided; 
 
security of the electronic/digital data or source; 
 
method used in collecting, storing and maintaining the information; 
 
level of privacy attached to the electronic/digital data or source; 
 
whether the electronic/digital data or source is reviewed and updated regularly; 
 
whether the electronic/digital data or source has incorporated a mechanism to 
determine that the person who is the subject of verification can be linked to the 
claimed identity; 
 
whether the information is maintained by a government, statutory body or 
pursuant to a specific enactment; and  
 
whether the information has been additionally verified from another reliable 
and independent source. 
(xii) Reliance on electronic/digital verification, as in physical paper verification, may 
disclose both positive and negative information concerning an applicant or a customer. 
Positive information will generally confirm the existence of a person (individual or 
legal) by providing confirmation of name, current address and date of birth. Negative 
information may relate to some wrong-doing (such as criminal conviction, ongoing 
criminal investigation, identity fraud, sanctions breach, etc.)connected to an applicant 
Anti-Money Laundering and
74
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
or customer. These are all important markers in the electronic/digital verification 
process and their discovery may assist in mitigating the possibility or potential for 
impersonation fraud and other types of criminal activity relative to money laundering 
and/or terrorist financing. It is therefore important that where reliance is placed on 
electronic/digital data of an organisation that the organisation has available to it the 
ability to be immediately notified and/or become aware of any changes in the source 
data that may impact the original assessment of the applicant for business or customer. 
(xiii) Where an entity or a professional uses the medium of electronic/digital verification 
to verify the identity of an applicant or a customer, the entity or professional assumes(as 
with physical verification of information)full responsibility if there is failure to make any 
significant discovery in relation to the applicant or customer which could otherwise 
have been discovered with care and diligence at the time the verification was undertaken 
or when the applicant’s or customer’s information was being updated. It is therefore 
important that an entity or a professional sets out in writing the steps it has taken in 
engaging the electronic/digital verification process as regards an applicant or a 
customer. Consideration might be given to including in the entity’s or professional’s 
identification and verification procedures (required under the AMLR) the forms of 
electronic/digital identity verification methods used or relied upon during a verification 
process. 
(xiv) Where reliance is placed on electronic/digital verification, it is important that an 
entity or a professional seeks (as with the physical verification of information) 
confirmation of the matter being verified from a multiplicity of sources as is considered 
necessary. This may also be satisfied by relying on a single source that has relied on a 
multiplicity of other sources to acquire and retain its identity verification data. In 
circumstances where supplemental information is required for verification purposes, 
reliance may be placed on social media sources, but caution must be exercised as 
regards the reliability of such sources, especially in cases where information contained 
in such sources can be accessed and altered. It is therefore prudent that an entity or a 
professional should adopt qualitative checks which enable a proper assessment of the 
strength of the information sourced and received. 
(xv) An entity or a professional may not rely on an electronic/digital record in certain 
circumstances. These will include situations where the relevant information contained in 
the record is not capable of being displayed in a legible form, the electronic/digital 
record appears to be damaged, altered or incomplete, or an electronic/digital signature 
or other kind of authentication accompanying or included with the electronic/digital 
record appears to be altered or incomplete. There may be other circumstances 
discernible on the face of an electronic/digital record which may require a proper 
assessment before reliance is placed on the record; it is for each entity or professional 
engaging electronic/digital means of identity verification to carefully consider and make 
an appropriate judgment call on. 
(xvi) It may not be in every situation that a non-face to face business relationship or 
transaction presents a high risk thereby requiring treating an applicant or a customer as 
high risk. The extent of verification in such a situation will depend on the nature and 
characteristics of the product or service requested and the assessed money laundering 
or terrorist financing risk presented by the applicant or customer. There may be 
instances where the applicant or customer is not physically present which, in itself, 
would not necessarily increase the risk that may attach to the transaction or activity. 
This will be the case, for example, in many wholesale markets or instances of purchase 
of some types of collective investments. It is important, therefore, that an entity or a 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
75
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
professional should take account of such instances in developing their AML/CFT 
systems (internal risk assessment procedures). 
(xvii) An entity or a professional may adopt or deploy additional measures which may 
include assessing the possibility that an applicant or a customer may be deliberately 
avoiding face-to-face contact. It is, therefore, important that the entity or professional is 
clear on and adopts the appropriate approach in such circumstances, ensuring full 
compliance with its or his or her risk assessment mechanisms in evaluating the risk 
presented by the applicant or customer. 
Documentation for Identity Verification 
(xviii) As already noted above, the process for verifying the identity of a person may 
take varying forms. It is crucial that an entity or a professional not only knows its or his 
or her applicant for business or customer, it or he or she must also be able to verify the 
actual beneficial owner of the applicant or customer. In order to ensure a greater 
degree of certainty and provide smooth business conduct without undue hindrance, 
uniformity of approach is essential to the extent possible, bearing in mind that 
exceptions may apply in certain instances with respect to applicants or customers that 
are assessed as high risk. In relation to an individual, the following guide should be 
adopted to confirm the identity of an individual: 
 
where identity is to be verified from documents, this should be based on either: 
 a government-issued document which incorporates— 
 the applicant’s or customer’s full name and photograph and either his 
or her residential address or his or her date of birth; 
 a government, court or local authority-issued document (without a 
photograph) which incorporates the applicant’s or customer’s full name, 
supported by a second document, either government-issued, or issued by a 
judicial authority, a statutory or other public sector body or authority, a 
statutory or regulated utility company, or a Commission-regulated entity in 
the financial services sector, which incorporates— 
 the applicant’s or customer’s full name and either his or her residential 
address or his or her date of birth. 
(xix) For purposes of the first bullet point under paragraph (xviii) above, a government-
issued document with photograph includes the following: 
 
a valid passport; 
 
a valid photo-card driving licence, whether permanent or provisional; 
 
a national identity card; 
 
a valid work permit card; 
 
an immigration status-issued card (for example, a belonger card); 
 
an election identity card; 
 
a national insurance card; and 
 
a valid student identity card. 
(xx) For purposes of the second bullet point under paragraph (xviii) above, a 
government-issued document without a photograph includes the following: 
Anti-Money Laundering and
76
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
instrument of a court appointment (such as appointment as liquidator, or grant 
of a probate); 
 
letter of appointment by the Commission as an examiner or a qualified person; 
and 
 
current Inland Revenue tax demand letter, or statement. 
(xxi) Examples of other documents to support a customer’s identity include utility bills 
or current bank statements or credit/debit card statements issued by a bank regulated by 
the Commission or another financial institution in a recognised jurisdiction listed in 
Schedule 2 of this Code. Where current bank statements or credit/debit card statements 
are issued by a regulated institution in a non-listed jurisdiction, the entity or 
professional should have regard to the ML/TF risks posed by that jurisdiction in 
determining whether the statements are acceptable. If the document is obtained from the 
internet, it should only be relied upon where the entity or professional is satisfied of its 
authenticity. Where a member of staff of the entity or professional has visited the 
applicant or customer at his or her home address, a record of this visit may constitute 
evidence corroborating that the individual lives at this address (that is, equivalent to a 
second document). 
(xxii) It should be noted that some applicants or customers may not be able to produce 
identification information equal to those outlined above. Such cases may include, for 
example, some low-income earners, customers with a legal, mental or physical inability 
to manage their affairs, individuals dependent on the care of others, dependent 
spouses/partners or minors, students (without student identity cards), refugees and 
asylum seekers, migrant workers and prisoners. There may be other examples not listed 
herein and these must be considered in the same context as and when they arise or are 
discovered. The entity or professional will therefore need an approach that compensates 
for the difficulties that these class of individuals may face in providing the standard 
evidence of identity. Nothing should be done that has the effect of shutting off an 
individual from establishing a business relationship or conducting a transaction with or 
through an entity or a professional simply on account of an inability brought on by the 
individual’s status or circumstances.  
(xxiii) Notwithstanding what is provided in the above paragraphs, an entity or a 
professional may, where it or he or she assesses an applicant or a customer as 
presenting a high risk, require and rely on such additional documentation as it or he or 
she considers appropriate and reasonable as further proof of identity. However, this 
must not be used as an excuse or a pretext for making inappropriate or unreasonable 
demands of an applicant for business or a customer or for negatively profiling an 
applicant or a customer thereby hindering a business relationship or transaction with 
the entity or professional.] 
(Amended by S.I. 36/2018) 
Verification of individual 
24. (1) An entity or a professional shall, with respect to an individual, undertake 
identification and verification measures where— 
(a) the individual is the applicant or joint applicant for business; 
(b) the individual is the beneficial owner or controller of an applicant for 
business; or 
(c) the applicant for business is acting on behalf of the individual. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
77
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(2) For purposes of the identification and verification of an individual, an entity 
or a professional shall obtain information regarding the individual’s full legal name 
(including any former name, other current name or aliases used), gender, principal 
residential address and date of birth. 
 (3) Where an entity or a professional makes a determination that from its risk 
assessment an individual or the product or service channels in relation to him or her 
presents a higher level of risk, the entity or professional shall perform enhanced due 
diligence and obtain and verify such additional information as it or he or she considers 
relevant with respect to the individual. 
(4) An entity or a professional may verify an individual through personal 
introduction from a known and respected customer or a member of its key staff in 
accordance with this section. 
 (5) A personal introduction made under subsection (4) shall contain— 
(a)  the full legal name and current residential address of the individual, 
including— 
 
 (i) 
in the case of the opening of an account, the postcode and any 
address printed on a personal account cheque tendered to 
open the account; and 
  (ii) 
as much information as is relevant to the individual as the 
entity or professional may consider necessary; 
(b) the date, place of birth, nationality, telephone number, facsimile 
number, occupation, employer’s name and specimen signature of the 
individual where a personal account cheque is presented to open an 
account; and 
(c) the full legal name and residential address and, in the case of a member 
of key staff, the rank of the key staff, introducing the individual and a 
brief description of the customer’s or key staff’s knowledge of the 
individual. 
 (6) Where a personal account cheque is tendered to open an account, the 
signature on the cheque shall be compared with the specimen signature submitted under 
subsection (5)(b). 
(7) An entity or a professional that fails to comply with the requirements of this 
section commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of 
the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
[Explanation:
(i) 
The identification and verification process in relation to an individual is a crucial 
aspect of the process of properly managing any potential risks. In each case of an 
application to establish a business relationship, it is a matter of prudence and judgment 
on the part of the entity or professional with which or with whom the relationship is 
sought to carry out the requisite due diligence measures; a lot may be learned from the 
applicant for business or customer, ranging from his or her demeanour, truthfulness, 
willingness to answer questions to volunteering information which by the nature of the 
relationship sought may be considered obvious. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
78
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(ii) It is not unreasonable for an entity to rely on an introduction of an individual from 
a well-known customer or key staff. In the context of the Virgin Islands, this medium of 
introduction should exceptionally be accepted only in respect of individuals who are of 
old age (or retired) and have no form of identification to enable an appropriate 
verification and the business relationship sought does not involve significant amounts of 
money or other property whose value is not significant in monetary terms. However, 
reliance on a personal introduction must be accentuated with the conditions stipulated 
in section 24(2) and (5) of this Code; the information therein outlined must (where 
available) be provided. Where the individual holds more than one nationality, all of the 
nationalities he or she holds must be provided and recorded. It is important to take stock 
of the source of any documentary evidence presented to establish a business 
relationship. Where such evidence on the face of it emanates from a government or local 
government or from a district office or from the court, they should normally bear the 
relevant seal or stamp to authenticate the document. Where there is doubt as regards the 
authenticity of a document, verification must be conducted with the purported source; 
this may be carried out through formal channels by writing to the source concerned 
(noting that not every source may be willing to provide information personal to others) 
or conduct searches (where this can be done). Where it becomes necessary, the entity or 
professional should obtain the written permission of the individual concerned for the 
entity or professional to secure verification from the documentary source concerned. 
Reliance should normally not be placed on documentary evidence provided by a non-
government or non-public sector or non-regulated body, unless the entity or 
professional develops satisfactory knowledge in relation to the evidence presented or 
there is additional evidence which provides comfort to establish a relationship. 
(iii) With respect to established relationships where transactions are conducted over 
the telephone, the entity or professional must ensure that it or he or she verifies the 
identity of the individual to satisfy itself or himself or herself that the account to which 
the transaction relates is held in the name of the individual before effecting any 
transaction. Verification may include written authorisation from the individual which is 
duly signed. ] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Verification of legal person 
25. (1) An entity or a professional shall, with respect to a legal person, undertake 
identification and verification measures where the legal person— 
(a) is an applicant for business in its own right; 
(b) is a beneficial owner or controller of an applicant for business; or 
(c) is a third party (underlying customer) on whose behalf an applicant for 
business is acting. 
 (2) For purposes of the identification and verification of a legal person, an entity 
or a professional shall obtain information regarding— 
(a) the full name of the legal person; 
(b) the official registration or other identification number of the legal 
person; 
(c) the date and place of incorporation, registration or formation of the legal 
person; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
79
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(d) the address of the registered office in the country of incorporation of the 
legal person and its mailing address, if different; 
(e) where applicable, the address of the registered agent of the legal person 
to whom correspondence may be sent and the mailing address of the 
registered agent, if different; 
(f) the legal person’s principal place of business and the type of business 
engaged in; and 
(g) the identity of each director of the legal person, including each 
individual who owns at least 10% or more of the legal person. 
(3) Where an entity or a professional makes a determination that from its or his 
or her risk assessment a legal person or the product or service channels in relation to the 
legal person presents a higher level of risk, the entity or professional shall perform 
enhanced customer due diligence and obtain and verify such additional information as it 
or he or she considers relevant with respect to the legal person. 
 (4) For purposes of verification in relation to a legal person that is a company, 
the following documents shall be required from the company— 
(a) memorandum and articles of association or equivalent governing 
constitution; 
(b) resolution, bank mandate, signed application form or any valid account-
opening authority, including full names of all directors and their 
specimen signatures, signed by no fewer than the number of directors 
required to make a quorum; 
(c) copies of powers of attorney or other authorities given by the directors 
in relation to the company; 
(d) a signed director’s statement as to the nature of the company’s business; 
and 
(e) such other additional document that the company considers essential to 
the verification process. 
 (5) For purposes of verification in relation to a legal person that is a partnership, 
the following information shall be required from the partnership— 
(a) the partnership agreement; 
(b) the full name and current residential address of each partner and 
manager relevant to the application for business, including— 
 (i) in the case of the opening of an account, the postcode and any 
address printed on a personal account cheque tendered to open the 
account; and 
 (ii) as much information as is relevant to the partner as the entity or 
professional may consider necessary; and 
(c) the date, place of birth, nationality, telephone number, facsimile 
number, occupation, employer and specimen signature of each partner 
or other senior officer who has the ability to give directions, sign 
cheques or otherwise act on behalf of the partnership. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
80
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(6) For purposes of verification in relation to a legal person, other than a 
company, partnership and trust, the following information shall, subject to any 
additional information provided under this Code, be required from the legal person— 
(a) the full name and current residential address of the applicant for 
business, including—
(i) in the case of the opening of an account, the postcode and any 
address printed on a personal account cheque tendered to open the 
account; and 
 (ii) as much information as is relevant to the applicant for business as 
the entity or professional may consider necessary; 
(b) the date, place of birth, nationality, telephone number, facsimile 
number, occupation, employer’s name and specimen signature of the 
individual acting for the applicant for business. 
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where an entity or a 
professional— 
(a) forms the opinion that, having regard to the nature of its or his or her 
business, any of the requirements for verification of identity is 
inapplicable or, subject to subsection (7A), may be achieved by some 
other means; or 
(b) is unable to effect a verification of any matter in relation to a legal 
person, and is satisfied on the basis of the information acquired and 
verified, including taking account of its or his or her risk assessment and 
ensuring the absence of any activity that might relate to money 
laundering, terrorist financing or other criminal financial activity, it—
 (i) may establish a business relationship with the legal person 
concerned (applicant for business or customer) after recording its or 
his or her satisfaction and the reasons therefor; and 
 (ii) shall make available the information recorded under sub-paragraph 
(i) in an inspection or whenever requested by the Agency or 
Commission.  
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (7A) Where an entity or a professional forms the opinion pursuant to subsection 
(7)(a) that it or he or she may be able to achieve any of the requirements for verification 
of identity by some other means, it or he or she shall, prior to establishing a business 
relationship with the legal person, carry out the verification by that other means. 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (8) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with the requirements of 
this section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against 
under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The reference to a “legal person” generally refers to a body corporate. To be 
specific for the purposes of this Code, the reference to a “legal person” must be taken to 
cover bodies corporate, including partnerships, companies, trusts, foundations, 
associations and any incorporated or unincorporated clubs, societies, charities, 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
81
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
churches and other non-profit making bodies, institutes, friendly societies established 
pursuant to the Friendly Societies Act (Cap. 268), provident societies or cooperative 
societies established pursuant to the Cooperative Societies Act (Cap. 267) and any 
similar bodies. Thus the verification requirements in establishing a business relationship 
will apply to all of these bodies, irrespective of their structure or place of formation. 
(ii) As noted previously, there are different forms of verification that an entity or a 
professional may employ in trying to verify the identity of a person (legal or natural) 
with whom it or he or she wishes to establish a business relationship. It is still open to 
an entity or a professional to seek such additional information or documentation as may 
be considered necessary. However, the information or documentary evidence required 
under section 25 must be considered as representing the minimum requirements for 
verification purposes. These minimum requirements may be abridged only in the 
circumstances outlined in section 25(7) and upon being satisfied that it could properly 
do so and providing written reasons for the abridgement (which may be required by the 
Agency or the Commission in an inspection or whenever requested pursuant to the 
discharge of any of its functions), or pursuant to the simplified formula provided in 
section 26 (where applicable). Thus where an entity or a professional considers that 
some or all of the identification and verification requirements are not applicable, it or 
he or she is permitted to establish a business relationship. Where such identification and 
verification can be achieved by some other means, that must be carried out first before 
any business relationship is established and the means applied for effecting the 
identification and verification be recorded for inspection purposes or whenever 
requested by the Agency or Commission. It is important to note the conditions outlined, 
which are that the entity or professional concerned has to be satisfied with the 
information it or he or she has in relation to the applicant for business or customer and 
has carefully weighed the risks associated therewith to exclude any links to money 
laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime. The entity must record its 
reason or reasons for departing from the obligations outlined in section 25, unless it 
assesses a legal person who is an applicant for business as low risk, in which case the 
simplified verification method outlined in section 26 may apply. (Amended by S.I. 
4/2009) 
(iii) It should be noted that the legal owners of a legal person may be identifiable 
individuals or other legal entities; however, the beneficial ownership may rest with 
others. This arises normally where the legal owner is acting for the beneficial owner or 
because there is a legal obligation for the ownership to be registered in a particular 
way. For the purposes of establishing a business relationship, what is essential is to 
know who in fact controls the funds of the legal person or has a controlling power or 
management over the legal person in relation to the funds. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(iv) The actual persons requiring identification and verification may cover a much 
wider net on the basis of the requirement for a risk assessment; it may thus become 
relevant to consider the directorships, nature and distribution of interests within the 
legal person, the nature and extent of the business and any current contractual or family 
relationships, etc. It is a question of judgment in every application for a business 
relationship to determine whether any additional information is required and what such 
information should be or what form it should take. What is essential for an entity or a 
professional is to be able to ascertain and verify the identity of the controlling elements 
or owners in relation to every legal person with which the entity or professional 
establishes a business relationship. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
Anti-Money Laundering and
82
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(v) 
In a situation where an entity or a professional determines, having regard to the 
relevant risk assessment, that the legal person or the product or service sought presents 
a higher risk, it or he or she can do only one of 2 things: seek to obtain additional 
information to the desired level of satisfaction to properly establish the business 
relationship, or discontinue or terminate the business relationship. The decision must be 
taken objectively with a view to mitigating any potential risks and sufficiently guarding 
against money laundering, terrorist financing or other criminal financial activity. 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(vi) Where a business relationship applied for relates to the opening of an account in 
the name of a legal person, the entity or professional with which or with whom the 
relationship is to be established should take necessary measures to ensure that the 
signatories relative thereto have been duly accredited by the legal person. This may be 
achieved through a resolution of the legal person or other method acceptable to the 
entity or professional.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Where a legal person assessed as low risk 
26. (1) Notwithstanding section 25, where an entity or a professional assesses a 
legal person who is an applicant for business to be of low risk, it or he or she may verify 
the applicant’s identity by relying on any 2 of the following— 
(a) the legal person’s certificate of incorporation, together with its 
memorandum and articles of association or equivalent document or, in 
the case of a partnership, the partnership agreement or equivalent 
document; 
(b) the legal person’s latest audited financial statements, provided they are 
not older than one year prior to the establishment of the business 
relationship; 
(c) relying on information acquired from an independent data source or a 
third party organisation that the entity or professional considers is 
reasonably acceptable; 
(d) conducting a search of the relevant registry or office with which the 
legal person is registered; 
(e) wire transfer information, where a subscription or redemption payment 
is effected through a wire transfer from a specific account in a financial 
institution that is regulated in a jurisdiction which is recognised 
pursuant to section 52 and the account is operated in the name of the 
applicant. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) The entity or professional shall in any case take reasonable measures to 
verify the beneficial owners or controllers of a legal person and update information on 
any changes to the beneficial ownership or control. 
 (3) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with a requirement of this 
section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 
 
 
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
83
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation:
(i) 
The question of whether or not an applicant for business that is a legal person is of 
low risk is a matter of judgment for the entity or professional to make, having regard to 
its or his or her risk assessments (based on the requisite CDD and ECDD measures). It 
is considered sufficient, where a legal person is determined as presenting a low risk, for 
an entity or a professional to rely on any 2 of the requirements outlined in section 26(1). 
In any case where reliance is placed on documentation, the entity or professional must 
pay particular attention to the origin of the documentation and, where possible, the 
background against which it is produced. 
(ii) Where an entity or a professional opts to rely on information obtained from an 
independent source, it must be satisfied of the authenticity of the source; electronic 
search engine sources that are widely recognised and used for search purposes should 
be considered reliable. With respect to any reliance on third party organisations to 
which a legal person relates, the matters outlined in paragraphs (viii), (ix) and (xi) of 
the Explanation to section 23 must be adhered to. (Amended by S.I. 36/2018) 
(iii) Considering that beneficial ownership or control of a legal person can change 
from time to time, the entity or professional that has an established business relationship 
with the legal person must ensure that it regularly updates its records with respect to 
any changes that might take place from time to time. It may be a condition of 
establishing the relationship that the legal person shall notify the entity or professional 
every time there is a change in the beneficial ownership or control of the legal person. 
The essence of section 26(2) is to require the updating of any information on beneficial 
ownership or control where changes occur. This will ensure that at any point in time the 
record of such information is accurate and available whenever required. (Substituted by 
S.I. 4/2009) 
(iv) Where an entity or a professional utilizes a wire transfer test to verify 
identification, it or he or she must take necessary steps to ascertain that the account 
through which a subscription or redemption payment is effected actually exists and it is 
in the name of the applicant for business. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
Verification in respect of underlying principals 
27. (1) Where there is an underlying principal with respect to a legal person, an 
entity or a professional shall, in establishing a business relationship, verify the 
underlying principal and establish the true nature of the relationship between the 
principal and the legal person’s account signatory. 
 (2) The entity or professional shall make appropriate inquiries on the principal, 
if the signatory is accustomed to acting on the principal’s instruction and the standard of 
due diligence will depend on the exact nature of the relationship. 
 (3) An entity or a professional shall ensure that— 
(a) a change in an underlying principal or the beneficial owner or controller 
of the underlying principal is properly recorded; and 
(b) the identity of the new underlying principal or the beneficial owner or 
controller of the principal is appropriately verified. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
84
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(4) For the purposes of this section, “principal” includes a beneficial owner, 
settlor, controlling shareholder, director or a beneficiary (not being a controlling 
shareholder) who is entitled to 10% or more interest in the legal person. 
 (5) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with a requirement of this 
section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 
 [Explanation: 
(i) 
Where there is an applicant for business acting on behalf of a third party (that is to 
say, an underlying customer/principal), it is important for an entity or a professional to 
obtain sufficient information concerning the identity of the third party and any beneficial 
owner or controller of the third party. This is an essential AML/CFT CDD process that 
must be complied with. The verification processes outlined in this Code with respect to 
legal persons must be appropriately employed in order to establish satisfaction with the 
identity to be established in relation to third parties. 
(ii) As previously noted in this Code, it is a requirement for an entity or a professional 
to take necessary measures to ensure that its or his or her records in relation to an 
applicant for business are duly updated; this requirement does not exclude changes 
relative to third parties or the beneficial owners or controllers of third parties. It is 
important that the methods for updating the relevant records outlined in this Code are 
considered and applied accordingly.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Verification of trust 
28. (1) An entity or a professional shall, with respect to a trust, undertake 
identification and verification measures by obtaining the following information— 
(a) the name of the trust; 
(b) the date and country of establishment of the trust; 
(c) where there is an agent acting for the trust, the name and address of the 
agent; 
(d) the nature and purpose of the trust; 
(e) identifying information in relation to any person appointed as trustee, 
settlor or protector of the trust. 
 (2) Where an entity or a professional makes a determination from its or his or 
her risk assessment that a relationship with a trust or the product or service channels in 
relation to the trust presents a normal or a higher level of risk, the entity or professional 
shall perform customer due diligence or enhanced customer due diligence, as may be 
warranted by the circumstances, and obtain and verify the identities of all the 
beneficiaries with a vested right in the trust at the time of or before distribution of any 
trust property or income and such other additional information as the entity or 
professional considers relevant. (Substituted by S.I. 22/2012) 
 (3) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with a requirement of this 
section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
85
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––—––––––—
[Explanation: 
(i) 
There are a wide variety of trusts that are subject to a high degree of public 
interest and quasi-accountability, trusts set up under testamentary arrangements, and 
trusts established for wealth management purposes. It is important, in establishing 
proportionate AML/CFT systems and procedures and in carrying out appropriate risk 
assessments, that entities and professionals take account of the different levels of 
AML/CFT risks that trusts of different sizes and areas of activity present. 
(ii) Trusts are strictly not legal entities, considering that it is the trustees collectively 
who are, in effect, the applicant for business or customer. In these cases the obligation 
to identify the applicant for business or customer attaches to the trustees, rather than to 
the trust itself. The purposes and objects of most trusts are set out in a trust deed. 
(iii) A trustee will also have to be identified and verified where the trustee is the 
beneficial owner or the controller of an applicant for business or is an underlying 
principal on whose behalf an applicant for business is acting. An entity or a professional 
is neither required to establish the detailed terms of the trust nor the rights of the 
beneficiaries. 
(iv) It should be noted that in circumstances where an entity or a professional makes a 
determination that, having regard to its or his or her risk assessment, a relationship with 
a trust or any product or service channel relative to the trust presents a normal risk, 
relevant customer due diligence information must be obtained with respect to the trust. 
Where an entity or professional makes a determination that such a relationship presents 
a higher risk enhanced customer due diligence information must be obtained. The nature 
of the identification to be made or verification to be effected is a matter of judgment for 
the entity or the professional. However, at the barest minimum, the entity or professional 
is required to obtain identification information in relation to all the beneficiaries with a 
vested right in the trust at the time of, or before any distribution of trust property or 
income. In verifying the appointment of a trustee, it is important to verify the nature of 
the trustee’s duties. In addition, all information relating to any change of trustee of the 
trust must be noted and properly recorded; the methods previously identified for 
effecting an update on the information of applicants for business and customers may be 
employed with respect to trustees.] (Substituted by S.I. 22/2012) 
Non-face to face business relationship 
29. (1) An entity or a professional shall, as far as possible, enter into a business 
relationship with an applicant for business or a customer on a face to face basis so as to 
enable the entity or professional to make a visual assessment of the applicant or 
customer. 
 (2) Subject to this section, where an entity or a professional enters into a 
business relationship with an applicant for business or a customer whose presence is not 
possible, the entity or professional shall adopt the measures outlined in this Code and 
such additional measures as it or he or she may consider relevant, having regard to 
appropriate risk assessments, to identify and verify the applicant for business or 
customer. (Amended by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (3) Without prejudice to section 19(7) but subject to subsections (5) and (6), the 
provisions of this Code relating to identification and verification shall apply with respect 
Anti-Money Laundering and
86
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
to non-face to face business relationships. (Substituted by S.I. 4/2009 and amended by 
S.I. 36/2018) 
 (4) Where copies of documents are relied on in relation to a non-face to face 
application for business, an entity or a professional shall, in the absence of the 
application of section 19(7), apply an additional verification check, including the 
enhanced customer due diligence measures, to manage the potential risk of identity 
fraud. (Amended by S.I.s 4/2009 and 36/2018) 
 (5) Subject to subsection (6) and having regard to appropriate risk assessment, 
where identity is verified by electronic or digital means in relation to a non-face to face 
application for business or one-off transaction, additional verification checks are not 
required where the entity or professional is satisfied of the authenticity of the 
documentation being relied on. (Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
 (6) The entity or professional shall, for the purpose of electronic or digital 
verification of identity, use such multiple electronic or digital sources as the entity or 
professional considers appropriate and necessary. (Inserted by S.I. 36/2018) 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––—–––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Quite a number of transactions and business relationships, especially those 
involving significant amounts of funds or wealth are conducted on a non-face to face 
basis (for example, through the post or internet or by telephone) where the actual 
applicant for business is not present. This sort of relationship, no doubt, poses serious 
potential risks and therefore requires enhanced measures for identifying and verifying 
the applicant for business or customer to avert any AML/CFT risks. That responsibility 
falls to the entity or professional with which or with whom the business relationship is 
established.  
 
(ii) The extent to which identification or verification may be conducted by an entity or 
a professional in relation to a non- face to face business relationship is largely 
dependent on several factors: whether or not the applicant or customer is previously 
known or is acting for himself, herself, or on behalf of another person, the place of 
location of the applicant or customer, the nature and characteristic of the product or 
service sought, the type of business the applicant or customer is engaged in and overall 
the assessed money laundering and/or terrorist financing risk presented by the 
applicant or customer. The entity or professional may wish to consider other factors, 
depending on the circumstances and nature of the business relationship sought. 
Whatever factors are considered, these must effectively relate to an appropriate 
assessment of the potential risks that a particular relationship may pose.  
 
(iii) However, it should be appreciated that there may be situations where an 
applicant for business or a customer is not physically present (for example, 
circumstances relating to the purchase of certain types of collective investments) which 
would in themselves not increase the risk relating to a transaction or the processing of 
a business relationship. It is for the entity or professional to take account of such cases 
and include them in their internal systems and procedures with respect to dealings with 
applicants for business or customers. 
However, in circumstances where in a non-face to face business relationship an entity 
or a professional assesses an applicant for business or a customer as presenting a low 
risk pursuant to section 19(7) of this Code, the entity or professional is not required to 
apply ECDD measures, unless in its or his or her  assessment the entity or professional 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
87
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
forms the view that some or all elements of ECDD measures is necessary. The risk 
factors that may be associated with a non-face to face business relationship must 
always be properly and adequately weighed to make an assessment as to whether or 
not the application of simplified CDD measures would be appropriate. (Inserted by S.I. 
4/2009) 
 
 
(iv) While internet, telephone, postal and other non-face to face transactions no doubt 
present significant risks, an entity ought to be aware that certain factors or a 
combination of factors may equally be inimical to establishing a sound and low risk 
business relationship. These essentially may relate to: 
 
 
the ease of access to the entity’s established facility, regardless of time 
and location; 
 
 
the ease with which fictitious multiple applications may be made 
without incurring extra cost or suffering the risk of detection; 
 
 
the absence of tangible documents that can be verified;  
 
 
the absence of any confirmation from a known and well-established 
business entity or professional body with which the applicant for 
business is associated; and 
 
 
the speed with which electronic transactions are carried out. 
 
It is therefore important to carry out the necessary verifications when entering into a 
business relationship with an applicant for business on a non-face to face basis. 
 
(v) 
It should be noted that non-face to face identification and verification does carry 
an inherent risk of identity theft whereby the perpetrator presents himself or herself as 
the real other person in order to establish a business relationship or enter into a 
particular transaction or series of transactions. It is important therefore that an entity or 
a professional, in particular, should adhere to the risk assessment measures outlined in 
this Code to mitigate any potential risks. In addition, the entity or professional may 
consider employing the following measures as further checks in dealing with non-face to 
face relationships: 
 
 
requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in 
the applicant’s or customer’s name with a financial institution that 
is regulated by the Commission or by a financial institution that is 
regulated by a foreign regulator; 
 
 
verifying additional aspects of the applicant’s or customer’s 
identity or due diligence information; 
 
 
prior to concluding a relationship, establishing a telephone contact 
with the applicant or customer on a home or business number 
(mobile number not acceptable) which has been verified or a 
“welcome call” to the customer before transactions are permitted, 
using it to verify additional aspects of personal identity information 
that have been previously provided; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
88
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
communicating with the applicant or customer at an address that 
has been verified (such communication may take the form of a 
direct mailing of account opening documentation to him or her 
which, in full or in part, might be required to be returned 
completed or acknowledged without alteration); 
 
 
internet sign-on following verification procedures where the 
applicant or customer uses security codes, tokens and/or 
passwords which have been set up during the establishment of the 
relationship provided by mail (or secure delivery) to the named 
individual at an independently verified address; 
 
 
requiring copies of documents relied on for the application to be 
properly certified by an appropriate official (see section 30 of the 
Code). 
(vi) In establishing a business relationship through reliance on copies of documents, 
additional verification checks are not required to verify the identity of an applicant for 
business or customer where the entity or professional assesses that applicant or 
customer as presenting a low risk, pursuant to section 19(7) of this Code. This would 
normally be the case, for instance, in relation to applicants for business or customers 
that are known to the entity or professional or that emanate from recognised 
jurisdictions listed in Schedule 2 of this Code. Where the applicant for business or 
customer emanates from a non-listed jurisdiction, the entity or professional must have 
regard to the ML/TF risks posed by that jurisdiction in determining whether additional 
verification checks are required. It should be noted that dispensing with the requirement 
for additional verification does not mean dispensing with the basic CDD requirements 
of identification and verification, which continue to apply where an applicant for 
business or a customer (or a business relationship) is assessed as low risk. 
 
(vii) An entity or a professional may carry out non-face to face verification of an 
applicant or customer by electronic or digital means. In this case, an applicant or 
customer should only be treated as presenting a high risk where the entity or 
professional, as part of its risk assessment, considers that the applicant or customer 
indeed presents a high risk. In addition, enhanced customer due diligence verification 
measures are not required where— 
 
 
an entity or a professional relies on the electronic/digital data of an 
organisation which complies with the requirements and guidelines for 
electronic/digital verification outlined in section 23 of this Code; or 
 
is satisfied with the authenticity of verification documents; and  
 
has no concern regarding an applicant for business or a customer. 
 
However, where the applicant for business or customer is considered to present a high 
risk, the entity or professional must engage the enhanced customer due diligence 
requirements outlined in this Code. 
 
(viii) 
Account should also be taken of the requirements for utilising multiple sources 
for verification by electronic/digital means as outlined in paragraph (xiv) of the 
Explanation to section 23.] 
(Substituted by S.I. 36/2018) 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
89
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
_________________________________________________________________
Requirement for certified documentation 
30. (1) Where an entity or a professional, in the establishment of a business 
relationship or conduct of a one-off transaction with an applicant for business or a 
customer, relies on a copy of a document presented by the applicant or customer which 
the entity or professional, having regard to appropriate risk assessment, considers may 
not be authentic or may be doubtful or generally has concern with, the entity or 
professional shall ensure that the copy of the document is properly certified. 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a copy of a document is properly certified 
if the certification is made by a person who is competent and has authority to certify the 
document and bears— 
(a) the name and address of the person certifying the document; 
(b) the date of the certification; and 
(c) the signature or seal of the person certifying the document. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Every entity and professional has a legal obligation under the AMLR and this 
Code to risk assess its or his or her business relationships, including any transactions 
involving an applicant for business or a customer. In carrying out identification and 
verification requirements, reliance may be placed on copies of a document. These copies 
need not be certified in every case, particularly where the entity or professional does not 
have any doubt with regard to the source or authenticity of the information contained in 
the document. Certification must, however, be insisted upon where the entity or 
professional has some doubt regarding the authenticity or source of the document or any 
information contained in the document. Such certification will aid the verification 
process undertaken by the entity or professional. Any certification must include the 
information outlined in section 30 (2). 
(ii) The onus is on the entity or professional to determine whether the person making a 
certification is competent and has the authority to provide reliable certification. A 
person that is acting in a professional capacity and is subject to some rules of 
professional conduct promulgated and enforced by the professional body to which he or 
she belongs, is most likely to provide reliable certification. This is also the case for a 
person operating within a statutory system in his or her jurisdiction that provides for 
specific compliance measures and the application of penalties for breaches of those 
measures. Examples of persons that are competent and have the authority to certify 
reliable documents are as follows— 
 
a judicial officer or a senior public officer, including a senior police officer, 
customs officer or immigration officer with responsibility within his or her 
organisation for issuing certified documents (for example, a registrar 
responsible for deeds, land matters, etc.); 
 
an officer of an embassy, consulate or high commission of the country of issue 
of documentary evidence of identity; 
 
a legal practitioner or medical practitioner, or an accountant, actuary or 
other professional who belongs to a recognised professional body with 
established rules of professional conduct; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
90
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
a notary public who is governed by established rules of professional conduct 
or statutory compliance measures; 
 
a director, manager or senior officer of a licensed entity, or of a branch or 
subsidiary of a group headquartered in a recognised jurisdiction under 
Schedule 2 of this Code or other well-regulated jurisdiction that applies 
group standards to subsidiaries and branches worldwide and tests the 
application of and compliance with such standards.] 
(Substituted by S.I. 36/2018) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Reliance on third parties (Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
31. (1) For purposes of establishing a business relationship or conducting a 
transaction, an entity or a professional may rely on an introduction made of an applicant 
for business or a customer by a third party as provided in the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations. (Amended by S.I. 75/2015) 
 (2) An introduction made of an applicant for business or a customer shall be in 
writing and shall be recorded by the entity or professional receiving it. 
 (3) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, 2008 but subject to subsection (5), exemptions for verification of identity in 
circumstances where an applicant for business or a customer is introduced to an entity or 
a professional by a third party apply where the entity or professional satisfies itself or 
himself or herself that— 
(a) the third party has a business relationship with the applicant for business 
or customer; 
(b) the third party has taken measures to comply with the requirements of 
regulation 7(1) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 or, if 
the third party resides outside the Virgin Islands, their equivalent in the 
third party’s jurisdiction; and 
(c) the requirements of regulation 7(2) of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, 2008 or, if the third party resides outside the Virgin 
Islands, their equivalent in the third party’s jurisdiction, have been 
complied with. 
(Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
 (4) In a case where an applicant for business or a customer is introduced from 
one entity (“the introducing entity”) to another (“the receiving entity”) within the same 
group, the receiving entity— 
(a) may rely on the introduction from the introducing entity; and 
(b) shall satisfy itself that the introducing entity has complied with the 
requirements of subsection (3),  
and in such a case no verification need be conducted in respect of the same 
applicant or customer. (Amended by S.I. 75/2015) 
 (5) For the purposes of this section, an entity or a professional that relies on an 
introduction made of an applicant for business or a customer by a third party shall, prior 
to establishing a business relationship with the applicant or customer, ensure that— 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
91
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(a) the third party has in place a system of monitoring any change in risk 
with respect to the applicant for business or customer and of reviewing 
and keeping up-to-date at least once— 
 (i) every 4 years the relevant customer due diligence information on 
the applicant or customer where such applicant or customer is 
assessed to present a low risk; and 
 (ii) every year the relevant customer due diligence information on the 
applicant or customer where such applicant or customer is assessed 
to present a higher risk; and 
(b) it enters into a written agreement with the third party in the terms set out 
in regulation 7A of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and 
section 31A of this Code. 
(Substituted by S.I. 74/2015)
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation:
(i) 
In the nature of business transactions, it is not unusual for an applicant for 
business or a customer to straddle between two or more entities with respect to the 
applicant’s or customer’s business relationships. It is therefore possible that the first 
entity or entities that dealt with the applicant or customer would be able to introduce the 
applicant or customer to a new entity with which the same applicant or customer wishes 
to enter into a business relationship. The person introducing the applicant or customer 
would thus qualify as a third party. Such an introduction may emanate either from a 
domestic third party or a foreign third party; in either case, the new entity is able to rely 
on the introduction received from the third party. It is considered an unnecessary 
duplication for two entities to seek to obtain and verify the same information relating to 
the same applicant or customer. (Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
(ii) However, before an entity or a professional can rely on an introduction by a third 
party in the terms outlined in paragraph (i) above, it needs to be satisfied that— 
the requirements of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 
(specifically regulations 7, 7A and 7B) have been complied with in respect of 
the need for verification; 
the third party has the relevant records concerning the applicant’s or 
customer’s identification and fully complies with the obligations set out in 
regulation 7(1) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008; 
in the case of a foreign third party, that third party is regulated in his or her 
jurisdiction to the standards consistent with and meeting the requirements of 
the FATF Recommendations and, in any case, satisfies the definition of 
“foreign regulated person” in regulation 2(1) of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, 2008 ; and 
in the case of a professional third party, that third party is governed by 
established rules of professional conduct or statutory compliance measures 
with proportionate penalties for breaches(see section 31 (3) (c) of this Code 
and regulation 7 (2) (iii) of the AMLR). 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and
92
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
An entity or a professional must not rely on an introduction from a third party that does 
not meet the relevant requirements for introducing an applicant for business or a 
customer. The onus is therefore on the entity or professional accepting or seeking to 
enter into a business relationship with an applicant for business or a customer to ensure 
that the necessary customer due diligence in respect of that applicant or customer has 
been carried out by the third party concerned. In addition, the entity or professional 
must carry out its own due diligence obligations in respect of the third party in order to 
satisfy itself of the matters specified in the 4 bullet points outlined above. This effectively 
requires the entity or professional to test the third party to establish whether there is 
compliance and, if so, the extent of the compliance. This testing must be carried out 
periodically as provided in section 31(5)(a) of the Code. 
(Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
(iii) It should be understood that the essence of identification and verification of an 
applicant for business or a customer is to prevent, especially in the case of legal persons 
(companies) and legal arrangements (partnerships and trusts), these entities from being 
used to carry out money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime 
activities; the verification enables a better assessment and understanding of the risks 
they pose or are likely to pose in the business relationship. Such an assessment and 
understanding in turn assists in framing and adopting appropriate measures to mitigate 
the risks or potential risks associated with an applicant for business or a customer.  
(Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
(iv) Regulation 7 (1) (a) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 makes it 
clear that identification and verification should be based on “reliable, independent 
source documents, data or information”. This effectively calls for the application of 
good judgment on the part of an entity in identifying the methods on which it wishes to 
rely to effect its identification and verification; such method, however, must be a reliable 
one and one that is independent and unbiased. In identifying and verifying an applicant 
for business or customer or the beneficial owner of an applicant for business, 
verification may take different forms. For example, in relation to a person’s name, legal 
form and proof of existence (that is, getting to know who an applicant for business or 
customer or beneficial owner is), verification may be conducted by viewing or obtaining 
a copy of an entity’s certificate of incorporation, certificate of good standing, 
partnership agreement, deed of trust, or other document secured from an independent 
source that proves the name, form and current existence of the applicant for business or 
customer or beneficial owner. In particular, the entity or professional must be satisfied 
that it or he or she knows the identity of the beneficial owner(s) connected to the 
applicant for business or customer. In order to avoid reliance on documents that may be 
forged or that are suspect, certified copies of the documents may be relied upon if the 
originals are not available. Where considered appropriate (especially with respect to 
the reliability and independence of the source of data or information), reliance may be 
placed on a search engine (such as World Check and World Compliance) to verify an 
applicant for business or a customer or a beneficial owner connected to an entity. [For 
further information on verification, refer to paragraph (ii) of the Explanation to section 
19 of the Code and the Explanation to section 23.] 
(Substituted by S.I. 75/2015 and amended by S.I. 36/2018) 
(v) 
For purposes of identification and verification, there is no obligation for the entity 
or professional to obtain upfront a copy of any document or other data in respect of the 
applicant for business or customer. The verification methods identified in paragraph (iv) 
above are cited only as examples and an entity or professional may rely on other forms 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
93
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
of identification and verification to establish the identity of the applicant for business or 
customer and the beneficial owner associated therewith. Each entity and professional 
must apply good judgment to ensure that whichever method of identification or 
verification is used it achieves the objectives of section 31 of this Code and regulation 
7(1) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008. (Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
(vi) It is permissible for entities within the same group of entities to rely on each 
other’s introduction with respect to the establishment of a business relationship or the 
conduct of transactions. The caveat is that the entity which receives the introduction 
must satisfy itself that relevant records relative to the identity of the applicant or 
customer are maintained by the introducing entity. Where such a satisfaction is not 
obtained, no reliance must be placed on the introduction. Thus any attempt to rely on 
any exemption provided in the AMLR with respect to identifications must be predicated 
on full compliance with the established records relating to an applicant for business or a 
customer and the fact that the introducing entity needs to be a regulated entity or a 
foreign regulated entity or, in the case of a professional third party, that third party is 
appropriately subjected to established rules of conduct and compliance, including 
compliance with the requirements of section 31(3). (Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) 
(vii) It is important to note that reliance on an introduction does not shift an entity’s or 
a professional’s responsibility from ensuring that customer due diligence information in 
respect of an applicant for business or a customer would be available at all times 
whenever required pursuant to the AMLR, this Code or any other relevant enactment. It 
is therefore the duty of the entity or professional to satisfy itself or himself or herself 
that, prior to establishing a business relationship with an introduced applicant or 
customer, the third party gives the necessary assurance in writing that it or he or she 
has a system of monitoring any change in the applicant’s or customer’s risk and of 
reviewing the applicant’s or customer’s due diligence information for the applicable 
period stated and that the applicant’s or customer’s due diligence information will be 
made available or satisfactory arrangements will be put in place in the event that the 
business relationship between the introducer and the applicant or customer terminates 
(see the Explanation to section 31A for further details). It should be noted that the 
ultimate responsibility lies on the entity or professional to ensure that it has obtained 
and verified the identity of the applicant for business or customer and the beneficial 
owner or owners connected to such applicant for business or customer . (Substituted by 
S.I. 75/2015) 
(viii) One of the fundamental elements of customer due diligence is the need to update 
information on the applicant for business or customer. Accordingly, an entity or a 
professional that relies on an introduction by a third party must ensure that the third 
party has in place appropriate measures for updating information on the applicant or 
customer. This will include changes in the applicant’s general profile (business or 
otherwise), name, address, registered office or principal place of business, senior 
management, beneficial ownership or controller, purpose and nature of business, risk 
profile, etc. The obligation to review and update an applicant’s or a customer’s due 
diligence information must be carried out periodically, with that for high risk applicants 
or customers being at least once every year and that for applicants or customers 
assessed as presenting low risk being at least once every four years. While this 
obligation lies with the third party, the entity or customer is equally obligated to test and 
ensure that the third party is complying with its system of reviewing and updating the 
applicants’ or customers’ customer due diligence information. (Substituted by S.I. 
75/2015) 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Anti-Money Laundering and
94
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(ix) A written agreement with a third party is not required each time an entity or a 
professional enters into a business relationship with an applicant for business or a 
customer. A single agreement that meets all the necessary legal requirements (see 
section 31A) may be treated as governing all business introductions between the third 
party and the entity or professional, although the agreement may be supplemented in 
any particular case having regard to the particular nature and circumstance of the case 
and the requirements of the Regulations and this Code. (Substituted by S.I. 75/2015) ] 
Contents of written agreements
31A. (1) A written agreement between an entity or a professional and a third party 
(referred to in regulation 7A of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008) may 
contain such conditions as the entity or professional and the third party may agree upon 
but shall, at the minimum, contain the following conditions— 
(a) the third party undertakes to provide the information referred to in 
regulation 7(2) of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 at the 
time of entering into a business relationship with the entity or 
professional; 
(b) the third party undertakes, at the request of the entity or professional, to 
provide copies of all identification data and other relevant 
documentation concerning an applicant for business or a customer 
whenever required by the Agency, Commission or other competent 
authority in the Virgin Islands; 
(c) the third party undertakes to provide the entity or professional with the 
requested information without any delay and, in any case, within a 
period of forty eight hours, but not exceeding seventy-two hours 
(calculated from the time of dispatch of the request);  
(d) the third party confirms that it is regulated, supervised or monitored in 
the country or territory in which it is based by a competent authority 
(who must be named); 
(e) the third party confirms that it has in place measures that comply with 
customer due diligence and record keeping requirements that are at least 
equivalent to the FATF Recommendations; 
(f) the laws of the country or territory in which the third party is based and 
regulated, supervised or monitored do not prohibit or restrict the third 
party from providing to the entity or professional without delay copies 
of identification data and other relevant documentation concerning the 
customer due diligence carried out by the third party pursuant to any 
agreement with the applicant for business or customer; 
(g) the relevant person undertakes to inform the third party immediately of 
any change in the laws or practices of the Virgin Islands which will or is 
likely to affect the business relationship between them in the context of 
the agreement; 
(h) the third party undertakes to inform the entity or professional 
immediately of any change in the laws or practices of the country or 
territory of the third party which places prohibition or restriction on the 
ability of the third party to provide the entity or professional copies of 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
95
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
identification data and other relevant documentation concerning the 
customer due diligence carried out by the third party; 
(i) the third party undertakes to immediately notify the entity or 
professional of any legal, criminal or regulatory action taken against the 
third party or any of its members or senior officers including, where the 
third party is licensed, authorised, approved or a member of a 
professional body, whether the licence, authorisation, approval or 
membership has been suspended, cancelled, revoked or withdrawn or in 
any other way restricted; 
(j) the third party agrees to, and the entity or professional undertakes to 
conduct, a periodic test of the business relationship between them, 
including the terms and conditions of the agreement to establish 
compliance therewith; 
(k) confirmation that the third party is based in a country or territory that is 
recognised by the Virgin Islands under Schedule 2 of the Code; 
(l) the third party undertakes not to amend or in any way modify any 
agreement it may have with an applicant for business or a customer so 
as to defeat the third party’s obligations to the entity or professional 
under the written agreement between the entity or professional and the 
third party; 
(m) the third party undertakes to immediately notify the entity or 
professional if the business relationship between the third party and the 
applicant for business or customer is terminated for whatever reason; 
and 
(n) in a case where the business relationship between the third party and the 
applicant for business or customer is terminated, the third party 
undertakes to— 
 (i) provide the entity or professional, within seven days of the date of 
termination of the business relationship, with all the customer due 
diligence information and other relevant documents maintained by 
the third party in respect of the applicant for business or customer; 
or 
 (ii) advise the entity or professional in writing, within seven days of the 
date of termination of the business relationship, of the arrangements 
the third party has made to ensure that the entity or professional 
shall be able to access the customer due diligence information and 
other relevant documentation in respect of the applicant for 
business or customer whenever requested. 
 (2) For the purposes of— 
(a) subsection (1)(i), the reference to— 
 (i) “members” means members or shareholders, in the case of an entity 
that is a legal person, or partners, in the case of an entity that is a 
partnership; and 
Anti-Money Laundering and
96
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(ii) “senior officers” means persons who are appointed to and have 
responsibility for performing managerial or supervisory functions 
within an entity; 
(b) subsection (1)(n)(i), the entity or professional shall, upon receipt of the 
customer due diligence information and other relevant documentation, 
review the information and documentation and update it where the 
entity or professional reasonably forms the view that such action is 
necessary to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Anti-
money Laundering Regulations, 2008 or this Code; and 
(c) subsection (1)(n)(ii), the third party shall, where the arrangements 
include another person having custody of the customer due diligence 
information and other relevant documents, undertake to provide the 
entity or professional with the name, address and other relevant detail of 
that other person; 
 (3) The periods specified in subsection (1)(c) shall be in effect for a period of 2 
years from the date of the coming into force of this Code after which the undertaking to 
provide the requested information shall be performed within a period of twenty-four 
hours, and every written agreement referred to in subsection (1) shall be deemed to be 
amended accordingly. 
 (4) Where, prior to the coming into force of this Code, an agreement between an 
entity or a professional and a third party in respect of an applicant for business or a 
customer did not contain any or all of the conditions outlined in subsections (1) and (2), 
the entity or professional shall, on or before 31st December, 2016, have the agreement 
amended or revised to embody the conditions outlined in subsections (1) and (2). 
 (5) Where an entity or a professional fails to comply with subsection (4), it or he 
or she is liable to the penalty prescribed in Schedule 4 in respect of that non-compliance. 
__________________________________________________________________________ 
 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 require that, prior to entering into a 
business relationship in respect of an applicant for business or a customer who is the subject 
of an introduction by a third party, the entity or professional shall conclude a written 
agreement that requires the performance of certain obligations by the third party. Those 
obligations relate to the matters identified in regulation 7 of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, 2008 in relation to the third party, namely: obtaining and verifying the 
identities of the applicant for business and the beneficial owner of the applicant, 
understanding (in the case of an applicant that is a body corporate) the ownership and 
control structure of the corporate body, and understand and, where appropriate, obtain 
information on the nature or intended nature of the business relationship. The performance 
of these obligations effectively aids the process of ensuring compliance with regulatory, law 
enforcement and cooperation obligations of the Virgin Islands. 
(ii) 
The entity or professional relying on an introduction by a third party as a basis for 
entering into a business relationship with an applicant for business takes on the 
responsibility of satisfying itself or himself or herself that the third party has performed the 
necessary customer due diligence in respect of the applicant or customer. This responsibility 
cannot be transferred and ultimate compliance rests with the entity or professional. It is 
therefore important that the entity or professional satisfies itself or himself or herself at the 
time of entering into the written agreement that the third party is a regulated person, foreign 
regulated person or a member of a professional body which regulates its members for 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
97
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
AML/CFT compliance and has appropriate enforcement powers for non-compliance. The 
entity or professional must also obtain the necessary customer due diligence information 
outlined in regulation 7 at the time of receiving or accepting the business relationship with 
the applicant or customer and be satisfied that whenever it so requires the third party will 
provide the entity or professional with copies of the customer due diligence information 
maintained by the third party. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the entity or 
professional to ensure that the third party has the necessary measures in place to establish 
and maintain the identification of applicants for business and customers and to update such 
information, having regard to the risk profile of each. 
(iii) In order to ensure that a written agreement with respect to the formation of a business 
relationship founded on an introduction by a third party fully ensures compliance with the 
obligations outlined in the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code, certain 
conditions (provided in section 31A (1)) must be incorporated in the written agreement. Both 
the entity or professional and the third party will be held to the agreement, and the 
agreement may also form the basis of dialogue between the Agency and the Commission with 
the (foreign) regulator or supervisor of the third party where any non-compliance on the part 
of the third party is detected. 
(iv) In the event that the business relationship between the third party and the applicant for 
business or customer is terminated for whatever reason, the third party is obligated to either 
transfer to the entity or professional all the customer due diligence information it has 
maintained in respect of the applicant or customer or advise the entity or professional of the 
arrangements the third party has put in place to ensure that the entity or professional can 
have access to the necessary customer due diligence information or other relevant 
documentation in respect of the applicant or customer. As a base standard, the termination 
of a business relationship with the applicant for business or customer must be notified to the 
entity or professional within 7 days of the termination. In the event that the third party fails 
to provide notification of the necessary arrangements to enable the entity or professional to 
access customer due diligence information whenever required, the entity or professional 
should be guided by the following steps: 
 
notify the Agency and the Commission in writing of the failure to notify contrary to 
the written agreement by providing the name, address, competent authority by 
which the third party is regulated, supervised or monitored for compliance with 
anti-money laundering and terrorist financing obligations, and other details of the 
third party as would enable the Agency or the Commission to properly identify the 
third party; 
 
seek to perform the customer due diligence exercise in respect of the applicants for 
business or customers whose information the third party has not made satisfactory 
arrangements to enable access to; 
 
terminate the business relationships with the applicants for business or customers 
whose customer due diligence information it or he or she has been unable to obtain, 
and notify the Agency and Commission in writing of that fact, providing the names 
of the applicants or customers concerned. 
(v) 
Where, following the termination of the business relationship between a third party and 
an applicant for business, an entity or a professional decides to continue its or his or her 
business relationship with the applicant or customer, the entity or professional must ensure 
that it or he or she acquires all the necessary customer due diligence information in respect 
of the applicant or customer. In addition, the entity or professional must review the customer 
due diligence information and other relevant documentation received with a view to 
supplementing it to ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, 2008 and this Code. Any failure in this regard shall be presumed to 
Anti-Money Laundering and
98
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
have been occasioned by the entity’s or professional’s failure to review the customer due 
diligence information and other relevant documentation. 
(vi) With regard to a third party’s undertaking in a written agreement to provide relevant 
information whenever requested by the entity or professional within the prescribed time of 48 
hours (but not exceeding 72 hours), the time must be reckoned taking into account public 
holidays. Neither the Agency nor the Commission will compute public holidays in 
determining whether the stipulated period has been complied with. Accordingly, if an entity 
or a professional requests information from a third party with which it or he or she has a 
written agreement, the period must be reckoned in a way that excludes any public holiday. It 
is, however, important that the entity or professional takes the further step of informing the 
competent authority requiring the information of that fact; otherwise a failure to provide the 
requested information within the stipulated period may be interpreted as a failure to comply.  
(vii) Furthermore, the provision of requested information within a period of 48 hours but 
not exceeding 72 hours is a temporary arrangement to enable a smooth transitioning into a 
more effective information provision arrangement. This arrangement is valid only for 2 years 
from the date the amendments to this Code are brought into force. After the 2 year period, all 
written agreements shall require and shall, in any case, be construed to require the provision 
of requested information within a period of 24 hours from the time the request is made. All 
entities and professionals must therefore pay close attention to the stipulated period and 
ensure that they incorporate this requirement into their written agreements or, at the 
relevant time, amend their written agreements to comply accordingly. 
(viii) In relation to written agreements in existence before the coming into force of this Code 
(effective 1st October, 2015), a transitional period of up to 31st December, 2016 is provided 
to review and update those agreements to reflect the conditions outlined in section 31A(1) 
and (2). Failure to do so will attract the imposition of an administrative penalty as provided 
for in Schedule 4 of the Code. It is important therefore that all efforts are expended to ensure 
compliance with this legal requirement within the stipulated period.] 
__________________________________________________________________________ 
(Inserted by S.I. 75/2015) 
Testing business relationships 
31B. 
(1) An entity or a professional shall test its or his or her business relationship 
with a third party with which it or he or she has a written agreement at least once every 
three years. 
 (2) Subsection (1) does not prevent an entity or a professional from testing its or 
his or her business relationship with a third party in a shorter period. 
 (3) The testing shall be carried out with the objective of establishing whether or 
not and to what extent— 
(a) customer due diligence and other relevant documentation in respect of 
applicants for business or customers is maintained by the third party; 
(b) the other requirements of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 
and this Code are being complied with; 
(c) the conditions stipulated in the written agreement between the entity or 
professional and the third party are being observed by the third party; 
and 
(d) the agreement between the entity or professional and the third party 
should be reviewed to ensure a better level of adherence. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
99
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(3) The testing of the business relationship between an entity or a professional 
and a third party may take different forms (such as through an onsite review and 
examination of information and documents or a desk-based review through electronic 
means), but the entity or professional shall adopt the form that best achieves the 
objective of such an exercise, having regard to the requirements of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, 2008 and this Code. 
 (4) An entity or a professional that has carried out a testing of its or his or her 
business relationship with a third party shall— 
(a) keep a record of the testing; and 
(b) make a copy of the record of its testing available whenever requested by 
the Commission. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
A third party from a recognised jurisdiction (under Schedule 2) is expected to be 
regulated, supervised or monitored for AML/CFT compliance to the standards provided 
by the FATF Recommendations. On that basis, it may be arguable that the testing of the 
third party is not necessary as the regulator or supervisor of the third party would 
ensure that the third party maintains the required customer due diligence information. 
However, it should be noted that (under the FATF Recommendations) the obligations in 
relation to ensuring compliance with third party introductions is placed on the 
jurisdiction. Accordingly, the Virgin Islands is obligated to ensure that the rules 
governing the sourcing and maintaining of customer due diligence information relative 
to third party introductions are embodied in law. This is effectively premised on the 
basis that the Virgin Islands should be able to independently source and provide 
information in relation to any person in respect of whom customer due diligence should 
be carried out. Hence the need that entities and professionals relying on third party 
introductions should satisfy themselves that the third party has carried out and 
maintains the necessary customer due diligence information regarding an applicant for 
business or a customer before a business relationship is entered into with that applicant 
or customer. 
(ii) It is not enough that a third party claims or enters into an agreement that it has 
carried out the necessary customer due diligence or that it is maintaining information 
relative in that regard. The claim or the agreement are not necessarily doubted, but they 
must be verified through a testing process that provides the necessary assurance and 
confidence that in the event that the information is requested by the Agency or the 
Commission (or other competent authority) the information will be available and 
provided without delay. The “without delay” obligation is reckoned to be within a 
period of 48 hours –but not more than 72 hours –from the point of request for 
information to the point of delivery of that information to the requesting authority –the 
Agency, Commission or other competent authority. 
(iii) It is up to the entity or professional to determine its own formula as regards how it 
conducts a testing of its or his or her relationship with the third party in order to 
ascertain the status of the third party’s legal obligations under the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, 2008, this Code and the written agreement of the parties. 
However, the entity or professional must adopt the formula that best achieves the 
objectives set out in regulation 7 of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and 
section 31A of this Code as well as the written agreement between the parties. In 
addition, the entity or professional is required to keep and maintain a record of any 
Anti-Money Laundering and
100
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
testing that has been carried out. The objective here is two-fold: to establish whether the 
entity or professional is in fact carrying out its or his or her obligation to test the 
business relationship with the third party (the evidence); and to determine whether the 
testing is being effectively carried out. All testing records held or maintained by an 
entity or a professional must be made available to the Commission whenever the 
Commission makes a request in that regard. 
(iv) An entity or a professional may conduct a test of its relationship with a third party 
through a physical process of reviewing the relevant files (or a reasonable sample 
thereof in relation to many applicants for business or customers). This should provide 
the entity or professional the opportunity to analyse the files and develop an objective 
position as to whether or not all the required legal obligations with respect to customer 
due diligence information are being met and, if not, to determine what needs to be done 
to ensure that. Where an entity or a professional is satisfied that the third party has all 
of its customer due diligence information available electronically to which the entity or 
professional can have unhindered access for purposes of verifying the customer due 
diligence information maintained by the third party, the entity or professional may 
conduct its testing of the relationship with the third party by electronic means. This will 
be in addition to satisfying itself or himself or herself that copies of the customer due 
diligence information can and will be made available to the entity or professional upon 
request without any delay. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
(Inserted by S.I. 75/2015) 
Requirements post-verification 
32. (1) Where an entity or a professional is required under the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations or this Code to verify the identity of an applicant for business or 
a customer, it or he or she shall, following the verification, indicate in writing— 
(a) the steps taken and the evidence obtained in the process of the 
verification; and 
(b) any exemption granted or relied upon and the reasons which, in the 
opinion of the entity or professional, justified the exemption. 
 (2) The requirements outlined in subsection (1) shall be maintained as part of 
the record of the applicant for business or customer. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
After engaging in a verification process, it is considered vital for compliance and 
AML/CFT inspection purposes that appropriate records of the verification are kept and 
maintained. The form in which such information is to be kept and maintained is a matter 
for the entity or professional concerned. Indeed regulatory inspectors or other 
inspectors or investigating officers of the Agency would, as part of determining the level 
of compliance with the DTOA, PCCA, AMLR and this Code, require to know the reason 
or reasons for relying on an exemption and whether the judgment applied in the 
decision-making process is consistent with the established requirements. This should 
also serve to assist the entity or professional in its or his or her current and future 
dealings with applicants for business and customers.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
101
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
PART IV
SHELL BANKS AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING RELATIONSHIPS
Definitions for this Part 
33. For the purposes of this Part— 
(a) “bank” means a company that is the holder of a banking licence under 
the Banks and Trust Companies Act; and 
(b) “correspondent bank” refers to the provision of banking-related services 
by one bank (“the correspondent bank”) to an overseas bank (“the 
respondent bank”) to enable the respondent bank to provide its own 
customers with the cross-border products and services that it cannot 
provide them with itself. 
Prohibition against shell banks, etc. 
34. (1) An entity shall not— 
(a) enter into or maintain a correspondent relationship with—
 (i) a shell bank; or 
 (ii) any other bank, unless the entity is satisfied that the bank is subject 
to an appropriate level of regulation; 
(b) keep or maintain an anonymous account or an account in a fictitious 
name, whether or not on its own behalf or on behalf of a customer or 
otherwise. 
 (2) Where an entity permits the use of numbered accounts, it shall keep and 
maintain such accounts in accordance with the requirements of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations and this Code. 
 (3) Where an entity contravenes subsection (1) or (2), it commits an offence and 
is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
Shell banks are generally associated with a high level of secrecy (due largely to their 
fluid mobility and lack of presence in their jurisdiction of incorporation or any 
affiliation to a known banking group), which essentially impedes the required 
compliance measures outlined under the AMLR and this Code for the detection and 
prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes. Thus 
anonymous accounts, numbered accounts that are not traceable to specific names and 
accounts established and operated under fictitious names are not permitted as they 
present a high degree of risk for money laundering, terrorist financing and other 
criminal financial activity. Where, however, an entity keeps or maintains numbered 
accounts as part of its business operations, it must ensure that the requisite customer 
due diligence and, where necessary, enhanced customer due diligence and customer 
identification and verification measures are adopted and strictly followed; this includes 
the maintaining of all relevant records as required under the AMLR and this Code. In 
essence, where a business relationship or transaction is sought with an entity by a 
Anti-Money Laundering and
102
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
person whose identity is obscured or not made available to the entity, such a 
relationship or transaction must not be established or conducted.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Restrictions on correspondent banking 
35. (1) A bank that is, or that proposes to be, a correspondent bank shall— 
(a) not enter into or maintain a relationship with a respondent bank that 
provides correspondent banking services to a shell bank; 
(b) undertake customer due diligence measures and, where necessary, 
enhanced customer due diligence measures in respect of a respondent 
bank in order— 
 (i) to fully and properly understand the nature of the respondent bank’s 
business; 
 (ii) to make a determination from such documents or information as are 
available regarding the reputation of the respondent bank and 
whether it is appropriately regulated; and 
 (iii) to establish whether or not the respondent bank is or has been the 
subject of a regulatory enforcement action or any money 
laundering, 
terrorist 
financing 
or 
other 
financial 
crime 
investigation; 
(c) make an assessment of the respondent bank’s anti-money laundering 
and terrorist financing systems and controls to satisfy itself that they are 
adequate and effective; 
(d) ensure that senior management approval is obtained before entering into 
a new correspondent banking relationship; 
(e) undertake necessary measures to ensure that senior management reviews 
any established correspondent banking relationship at least once every 
year to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section; 
(f) ensure that the respective anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
measures of each party to a correspondent banking relationship is fully 
understood and properly recorded; and 
(g) adopt such measures as it considers necessary to demonstrate that any 
documentation or other information obtained in compliance with the 
requirements of this subsection is held for current and new 
correspondent banking relationships. 
 (2) In undertaking the requisite due diligence measures pursuant to subsection 
(1)(b), a bank shall, in particular, make an appropriate risk assessment that takes into 
account— 
(a) the respondent bank’s place of location, its ownership and management 
structure and its customer base (including the customer’s location); 
(b) the nature of the respondent bank’s business and services; 
(c) whether or not the respondent bank conducts relationships on a non-face 
to face basis and, if so, the measures it has in place for assessing its 
risks; and 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
103
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(d) the extent to which the respondent bank relies on third party 
identification and holds evidence of identity, or conducts other due 
diligence, on its customers. 
 (3) A bank shall not enter into or maintain a correspondent banking relationship 
where it has knowledge or a reasonable suspicion that the respondent bank or any of its 
customers is engaged in money laundering or terrorist financing. 
 (4) A bank that contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of this section 
commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The requisite CDD and, in applicable circumstances, ECDD measures outlined in 
this Code apply with respect to correspondent banking relationships. It should be noted 
that a correspondent bank has no direct relationship with the customers of the 
respondent bank and cannot therefore verify the identities of such customers; in effect, 
the correspondent bank simply functions as an agent or intermediary of the respondent 
bank and provides services to the customers of the respondent bank. In most cases a 
bank that is licensed under the Banks and Trusts Companies Act qualifies as a 
respondent bank. 
(ii) Correspondent banking services generally include matters relating to the 
establishment of accounts, facilitating the transfer of funds, providing payment or other 
clearing-related services and facilitating securities transactions. In the provision of such 
services, quite naturally correspondent banks would have limited information regarding 
not only the customer, but also the underlying transaction (for example, clearing 
cheques and wire transfers) being conducted for the customer. It is these attributes of 
correspondent banking which open it to higher risks of money laundering and terrorist 
financing activities; hence the due diligence measures outlined in section 35 must 
accentuate every correspondent banking relationship. It is therefore incumbent on every 
correspondent bank to undertake the necessary due diligence measures in relation to 
every respondent bank that it enters into a correspondent relationship with. In 
circumstances where those measures relate to documenting the respective AML/CFT 
responsibilities of the parties, it is not necessary that both have to reduce such 
responsibilities into writing; what is essential is that, as between the parties, there must 
be a clear understanding as to which of them will undertake the required due diligence 
measures.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Payable through accounts 
36. Where a correspondent bank provides customers of a respondent bank with direct 
access to its services, whether by way of payable through accounts or by other means, it 
shall ensure that it is satisfied that the respondent bank— 
(a) has undertaken appropriate customer due diligence and, where 
applicable, enhanced customer due diligence in respect of the customers 
that have direct access to the correspondent bank’s services; and 
(b) is able to provide relevant customer due diligence information and 
verification evidence to the correspondent bank upon request. 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and
104
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
Essentially, a payable through account is an account which a correspondent bank 
establishes to extend payment facilities or other services directly to the customers of a 
respondent bank. Considering the limited information generally available to the 
correspondent bank regarding such customers, it is imperative that the requisite due 
diligence measures are adopted to avert any potential risk of money laundering or 
terrorist financing. As the provider of the payable through account, the correspondent 
bank is entitled to information it requests of a customer using that facility.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
PART V
WIRE TRANSFERS
Definitions for and application of this Part 
37. (1) For the purposes of this Part— 
“batch file transfer” means several individual transfers of funds which are bundled 
together for transmission; 
“full originator information”, with respect to a payee, means the name and account 
number of the payer, together with—
(a) the payer’s address; and 
(b) the payer’s date and place of birth; or 
(c) the customer identification number or national identity number of the 
payer or, where the payer does not have an account, a unique identifier 
that allows the transaction to be traced back to that payer; 
“intermediate payment service provider” means a payment service provider, neither of 
the payer nor the payee, that participates in the execution of transfer of funds; 
“payee” means a person who is the intended final recipient of transferred funds; 
“payer” means a person who holds an account and allows a transfer of funds from that 
account or, where there is no account, a person who places an order for the 
transfer of funds; 
“payment service provider” means a person whose business includes the provision of 
transfer of funds services; 
“transfer of funds” means a transaction carried out on behalf of a payer through a 
payment service provider by electronic means with a view to making funds 
available to a payee at a payment service provider, irrespective of whether the 
payer and the payee are the same person; and 
“unique identifier” means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols determined by 
the payment service provider, in accordance with the protocols of the payment 
and settlement or messaging system used to effect the transfer of funds. 
 (2) Except for the types of transfers provided in section 38, this Part applies to a 
transfer of funds in any currency which are sent or received by a payment service 
provider that is established in the Virgin Islands. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
105
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
Exemptions 
38. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a transfer of funds carried out using a credit or 
debit card is exempt from this Part if— 
(a) the payee has an agreement with the payment service provider 
permitting payment for the provision of goods and services; and 
(b) a unique identifier, allowing the transaction to be traced back to the 
payer, accompanies the transfer of funds. 
 (2) A transfer of funds is not exempt from the application of this Part if the 
credit or debit card is used as a payment system to effect the transfer. 
 (3) A transfer of funds is exempt from this Part if the transfer is carried out 
using electronic money, the amount transacted does not exceed $1,000 and where the 
device on which the electronic money is stored— 
(a) cannot be recharged, the maximum amount stored in the device is $200; 
or 
(b) can be recharged, a limit of $3,000 is imposed on the total amount that 
can be transacted in a calendar year, unless an amount of $1,000 or 
more is redeemed in that calendar year by the bearer of the device. 
 (4) For the purposes of this section, electronic money is money as represented 
by a claim on the issuer which—
(a) is stored on an electronic device; 
(b) is issued on receipt of funds of an amount not less in value than the 
monetary value issued; and 
(c) is accepted as means of payment by persons other than the issuer. 
 (5) A transfer of funds made by mobile telephone or any other digital or 
information technology device is exempt from this Part if— 
(a) the transfer is pre-paid and does not exceed $500; or 
(b) the transfer is post-paid; 
(c) the payee has an agreement with the payment service provider 
permitting payment for the provision of goods and services; 
(d) a unique identifier, allowing the transaction to be traced back to the 
payer, accompanies the transfer of funds; and 
(e) the payment service provider of the payee is a licensee. 
 (6) A transfer of funds is exempt if— 
(a) the payer withdraws cash from the payer’s own account; 
(b) there is a debit transfer authorisation between 2 parties permitting 
payments between them through accounts, provided a unique identifier 
accompanies the transfer of funds to enable the transaction to be traced 
back; 
(c) it is made using truncated cheques; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
106
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(d) it is a transfer to the Government of, or a public body in, the Virgin 
Islands for taxes, duties, fines or charges of any kind; or 
(e) both the payer and the payee are payment service providers acting on 
their own behalf. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
This Part of the Code effectively implements FATF Special Recommendation VII 
relating to the electronic transfer of funds. The application relates to both domestic and 
cross-border transfers so as to facilitate the tracking of funds associated with such 
transfers by persons who may be engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing and 
other forms of financial crime. Compliance with Special Recommendation VII is 
essential to the Territory’s international cooperation regime and facilitates trade and 
commerce where the electronic transfer of funds (also referred to as “wire transfers”) 
allows for smooth business transactions. Non-compliance with the Special 
Recommendation could have the adverse effect of having financial institutions in 
compliant jurisdictions refusing to accommodate business originating from or destined 
to the Territory. 
(ii) What this Part essentially requires is consistent with the CDD requirements. 
Payment service providers are required to provide specific information in each wire 
transfer with respect to the person on whose instructions the wire transfer is to be 
effected. However, such information does not have to be obtained and verified each time 
a customer requests a wire transfer; where the information had previously been 
obtained and verified and the entity effecting the transfer remains satisfied regarding the 
accuracy of the information on record, that information may be relied upon for 
subsequent transactions by the customer. 
(iii) The scope of application of this Part of the Code is subject to specified exemptions. 
It is important that these exemptions are duly noted so as not to stifle or unnecessarily 
complicate otherwise secure transactions where the scope for money laundering, 
terrorist financing or other financial crime is limited.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Payment service provider of payer 
39. (1) Subject to section 38, the payment service provider of a payer shall ensure 
that every transfer of funds is accompanied by the full originator information. 
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in the case of a batch file transfer from a 
single payer, where some or all of the payment service providers of the payees are 
situated outside the Virgin Islands, if— 
(a) the batch file contains the complete information on the payer; and 
(b) the individual transfers bundled together in the batch file carry the 
account number of the payer or a unique identifier. 
 (3) The payment service provider of the payer shall, before transferring any 
funds, verify the full originator information on the basis of documents, data or 
information obtained from a reliable and independent source. 
 (4) In the case of a transfer from an account, the payment service provider may 
deem verification of the full originator information to have taken place if it has complied 
with the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code relating to 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
107
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
the verification of the identity of the payer in connection with the opening of that 
account. 
 (5) In the case of a transfer of funds not made from an account, the full 
originator information on the payer shall be deemed to have been verified by a payment 
service provider of the payer if— 
(a) the transfer consists of a transaction of an amount not exceeding $1,000; 
(b) the transfer is not a transaction that is carried out in several operations 
that appear to be linked and that together comprise an amount exceeding 
$1,000; and 
(c) the payment service provider of the payer does not suspect that the 
payer is engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing or other 
financial crime. 
 (6) The payment service provider of the payer shall keep records of full 
originator information on the payer that accompanies the transfer of funds for a period of 
at least 5 years. 
 (7) Where the payment service provider of the payer and the payee are situated 
in the Virgin Islands, a transfer of funds need only be accompanied by— 
(a) the account number of the payee; or 
(b) a unique identifier that allows the transaction to be traced back to the 
payer, where the payer does not have an account number. 
 (8) Where this section applies, the payment service provider of the payer shall, 
upon request from the payment service provider of the payee, make available to the 
payment service provider of the payee the full originator information within 3 working 
days, excluding the day on which the request was made. 
 (9) Where a payment service provider of the payer fails to comply with a request 
to provide the full originator information within the period specified in subsection (8), 
the payment service provider of the payee may notify the Agency and the Commission, 
either or both of which shall require the payment service provider of the payer to comply 
with the request immediately. 
 (10) Where a payment service provider of the payer fails to comply with an 
instruction from the Agency or Commission to comply with a request pursuant to 
subsection (9), he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 (11) Without prejudice to subsections (9) and (10), where a payment service 
provider of the payer fails to comply with a request, the payment service provider of the 
payee may— 
(a) issue such warning to the payment service provider of the payer as may 
be considered necessary; 
(b) set a deadline to enable the payment service provider of the payer to 
provide the required full originator information; 
(c) reject future transfers of funds from the payment service provider of the 
payer; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
108
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(d) restrict or terminate its business relationship with the payment service 
provider of the payer with respect to transfer of funds services or any 
mutual supply of services. 
 
[Explanation:
(i) 
It is important to note that one of the fundamental AML/CFT principles with 
respect to wire transfers, especially as they relate to cross-border batch transfers, is the 
timely provision of full originator information by the payment service provider of the 
payer to the payment service provider of the payee when so requested. While it is 
acceptable to rely on oral requests in circumstances where there is assurance that the 
requested information would be provided within the specified period of 3 days after the 
date of the request, it is advisable that such requests be documented; this is particularly 
important for enforcement purposes where a request is not complied with as provided 
under this Code. Similarly, where the Agency and the Commission are notified of a 
failure to accede to a request within the specified period, the directives issued by the 
Agency and the Commission must be reduced in writing. A record of regular or 
persistent breach on the part of a payment service provider of the payer should itself, 
where the payment service provider of the payer is licensed by the Commission, be a 
serious cause for concern and for necessary action by the Commission against the 
payment service provider of the payer. 
(ii) Where the Agency and the Commission receive a notification of non-compliance 
pursuant to subsection (8), it is not necessary that both should compel compliance; it is 
sufficient if one compels compliance and notifies the other of that fact, or compels 
compliance after consultation with the other. It is expected that where the notified 
failure to comply relates to a payment service provider of a payer which is regulated by 
the Commission, the Commission will take the necessary action to compel compliance; 
in any other case, the Agency will bear such responsibility. In either case, however, it is 
essential that a directive to comply should be copied to the other for its own records. 
(iii) While routine batched wire transfers may not ordinarily present money laundering 
and terrorist financing risks, entities are required to adopt relevant measures to ensure 
that non-routine transactions are not batched in circumstances where doing so will or is 
likely to present such risks.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Payment service provider of payee 
40. (1) The payment service provider of the payee shall verify that fields within the 
messaging or payment and settlement system used to effect the transfer in respect of the 
full originator information on the payer have been completed in accordance with the 
characters or inputs admissible within the conventions of that messaging or payment and 
settlement system. 
 (2) The payment service provider of the payee shall put in place effective 
procedures for the detection of any missing or incomplete full originator information. 
 (3) In the case of batch file transfers, the full originator information is required 
only in the batch file and not in the individual transfers bundled together in it.
 (4) Where the payment service provider of the payee becomes aware that the 
full originator information on the payer is missing or incomplete when receiving 
transfers of funds, the payment service provider of the payee shall— 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
109
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(a) reject the transfer;
(b) request for the full originator information on the payer; or 
(c) take such course of action as the Agency or Commission directs, after it 
has been notified of the deficiency discovered with respect to the full 
originator information of the payer, 
unless where doing so would result in contravening a provision of the Drug Trafficking 
Offences Act, 1992, Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act or the Anti-terrorism (Financial 
and Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order 2002. 
 (5) Any missing or an incomplete information shall be a factor in the risk-based 
assessment of a payment service provider of the payee as to whether a transfer of funds 
or any related transaction is to be reported to the Agency as a suspicious transaction or 
activity with respect to money laundering or terrorist financing. 
 (6) The payment service provider of the payee shall keep records of any 
information received on the payer for a period of at least 5 years. 
 (7) A person who fails to comply with a provision of this section commits an 
offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act. 
Intermediary payment service provider 
41. (1) This section applies where the payment service provider of the payer is 
situated outside the Virgin Islands and the intermediary service provider is situated 
within the Virgin Islands. 
 (2) An intermediary payment service provider shall ensure that any information 
it receives on the payer that accompanies a transfer of funds is kept with that transfer. 
 (3) Where this section applies, an intermediary service provider may use to send 
a transfer to the payment service provider of the payee a system with technical 
limitations which prevents the information on the payer from accompanying the transfer 
of funds. 
 (4) Where, in receiving a transfer of funds, the intermediary payment service 
provider becomes aware that information on the payer required under this Part is 
incomplete, the intermediary payment service provider may only use a payment system 
with technical limitations if the intermediary payment service provider (either through a 
payment or messaging system, or through another procedure that is accepted or agreed 
upon between the intermediary payment service provider and the payment service 
provider of the payee) provides confirmation that the information is incomplete. 
 (5) An intermediary payment service provider that uses a system with technical 
limitations shall, if the payment service provider of the payee requests, within 3 working 
days after the day on which the intermediary payment service provider receives the 
request, make available to the payment service provider of the payee all the information 
on the payer that the intermediary payment service provider has received, whether or not 
the information is the full originator information. 
 (6) An intermediary payment service provider that uses a system with technical 
limitations which prevents the information on the payer from accompanying the transfer 
of funds shall keep records of all the information on the payer that it has received for a 
period of at least 5 years. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
110
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART VI
RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS
Compliance with record keeping measures
42. (1) An entity or a professional shall comply with the record keeping 
requirements outlined in the Anti-money Laundering Regulations in the forms and 
details provided in this Code. 
 (2) A record of a business relationship or transaction or any other matter 
required to be maintained under the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code 
shall, unless otherwise prescribed, be maintained in a form that it can be easily 
retrievable. 
 (3) A retrievable form in respect of a record may consist of— 
(a) an original copy or a certified copy of an original copy; 
(b) microform; 
(c) a computerised or other electronic data; or 
(d) a scanned document of the original document which is certified where 
necessary. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The FATF Recommendation 10 provides for the need to keep and maintain all 
necessary records and transactions relative to business dealings. The rationale for this 
measure, consistent with the efforts to minimise the risks associated with money 
laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes, is to ensure that the history of 
transactions that have been conducted can be properly traced in the event that that 
becomes necessary; it is also very essential to the law enforcement and intelligence 
gathering processes that seek to detect incidences of unlawful abuse of the financial 
system, initiate preventative measures and prosecute offenders. Inadequate record 
keeping can only contribute to unnecessary delays and frustrations in conducting 
investigations for purposes of ensuring not only the prevention and punishment of 
criminal conduct, but also of verifying transactions and identities relating to a person 
with whom or with which a business relationship is established or is to be established. 
(ii) The essence of record keeping is to ensure that such records, whenever needed, 
would be available in a form that would enable their proper retrieval and reproduction 
in a legible and useable form, whether or not for evidential purposes. It is also essential 
that such records, whenever needed, are made available within a reasonable period. 
Thus whenever the Agency or the Commission in the process of an inspection or 
investigation wishes to receive information that is required to be kept under the 
provisions of the AMLR and this Code, the entity or professional to which or to whom 
the matter relates is expected to comply within reasonable speed. What constitutes 
reasonable speed will ordinarily be gauged from the nature of the information 
requested, the circumstances and urgency of the request relating to the information and 
an entity’s or a professional’s obligation to maintain such information in an accessible 
manner. 
(iii) The minimum retention period of records required under the AMLR is 5 years; this 
Code replicates that requirement with respect to specific transactions. However, 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
111
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
consistent with the AMLR, it should be noted that there may be circumstances where it 
becomes necessary to retain records for longer periods extending beyond the prescribed 
minimum. For instance, where an investigation relates to records that are considered 
essential to the investigative process, it is important that those records continue to be 
kept beyond the prescribed minimum period. The Agency or the Commission, as the case 
may be, would be expected to advise the concerned entity or professional not to dispose 
of relevant records (which otherwise would be eligible to be destroyed) while 
investigations or other inquiries are on-going in relation to them or the person to which 
or to whom they relate. That notwithstanding, where an entity or a professional becomes 
aware of an investigation or other inquiry in relation to which records are kept by such 
entity or professional, the entity or professional must not destroy the records unless so 
advised by the investigating body or the investigation and all proceedings relating to it 
are terminated, whichever occurs first. In the event of any uncertainty, necessary inquiry 
must be made of the Agency or the Commission, as the case may be. 
(iv) It is a requirement that an entity or a professional must take all necessary 
measures to ensure that customer files and business correspondence relating to the 
relationship are properly maintained; the same requirement applies to CDD and ECDD 
information obtained. In order to ensure a quick retrieval and updating, records that an 
entity or a professional is required to maintain must be kept in a form and manner that 
facilitates their quick recovery.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Due Diligence and identity records 
43. (1) Where a record maintained by an entity or a professional relates only to the 
evidence of identity (as opposed to the actual evidence or a copy of such evidence), the 
entity or professional shall ensure that the record consists of information— 
(a) regarding the source from which the evidence can be obtained; or 
(b) that is sufficient to enable the details of identity to be obtained, in 
circumstances where it is not reasonably practicable to obtain or retain a 
copy of the evidence. 
 (2) An entity or a professional shall ensure that the manner in which customer 
due diligence and, where applicable, enhanced customer due diligence information is 
recorded and kept facilitates the unhindered monitoring of its or his or her business 
relationships and transactions. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
As previously noted, CDD and ECDD are integral to an effective functioning of an 
AML/CFT regime. It is therefore important that records of CDD and ECDD with respect 
to any business relationship or one-off transaction are kept and maintained in a manner 
that ensures an effective supervision of an entity or a professional. The record of identity 
is particularly significant for purposes of establishing not only the connection of an 
applicant for business or a customer to a specific relationship, but also for tracing the 
identified person for enforcement purposes. In a situation where an entity or a 
professional does not hold the actual evidence relative to a relationship or transaction, 
it is essential that sufficient information is recorded so as to facilitate access to the 
source of the evidence. It is therefore for the entity or professional to ensure that this is 
achieved at the time of entering into a business relationship (or shortly thereafter in the 
Anti-Money Laundering and
112
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
circumstances provided under this Code) or conducting a transaction with an applicant 
for business or a customer.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Transaction records 
44. For the purposes of retaining sufficient information on transactions, an entity or a 
professional shall take necessary measures to ensure that the records it or he or she 
maintains include the following— 
(a) the name and address of the customer; 
(b) in the case of a monetary transaction, the kind of currency and amount 
involved; 
(c) the beneficiary of the monetary transaction or product, including his or 
her name and address; 
(d) where the transaction involves a customer’s account, the number, name 
or other identifier with respect to the account; 
(e) the date of the transaction; 
(f) the nature of the transaction and, where the transaction involves 
securities and investment, the form in which funds are offered and paid 
out; 
(g) in the case of a transaction involving an electronic transfer of funds, 
sufficient detail to enable the establishment of the identity of the 
customer remitting the funds and compliance with paragraph (c); 
(h) account files and business correspondence with respect to a transaction; 
and (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
(i) sufficient details of the transaction for it to be properly understood. 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The transaction records required under section 44 must be viewed as the minimum 
obligated under this Code. The responsibility is on the relevant entity or professional to 
ensure that sufficient information is obtained with respect to every transaction involving 
or relating to a customer and other persons connected therewith as may be appropriate. 
Different transactions may present different scenarios which in turn may obligate or 
necessitate the taking and maintaining of records additional to those outlined in section 
44. It is a matter for the entity or professional to make a judgment on, having regard to 
the ultimate duty to maintain sufficient, clear and reliable records which can be readily 
accessed whenever required. 
(ii) Depending on the nature of the business relationship with a customer, an entity or 
a professional may (as already noted) require the provision of additional information 
for transaction and record keeping purposes. The following list may be considered 
within that context— 
 
in the case of securities and investment transactions, details of the nature of 
such securities or investments and the valuations and prices; 
 
the memorandum of purchase and sale; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
113
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
the form in which funds are transferred – whether in cash, cheque or other 
monetary instrument or by electronic transfer; 
the memorandum of instruction and authority; and 
custody of title documentation.
Ultimately, it is generally a judgment call for the entity or professional regarding the 
need for and extent of additional information required in respect of a customer as it 
relates to any particular transaction. This does not, however, dispense with the 
established minimum requisites for record keeping.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Minimum retention periods of records 
45. (1) For purposes of forestalling and preventing the activities of money 
laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime, an entity or a professional shall, 
in accordance with the requirements of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations 
maintain for a period of at least 5 years— 
(a) the records required by the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this 
Code for purposes of establishing customer due diligence, compliance 
auditing, law enforcement, facilitating the strengthening of the entity’s 
or professional’s systems of internal control and facilitating responses to 
requests for information pursuant to the provisions of the regulations, 
this Code or any other enactment or for regulatory or investigative 
purposes; 
(b) the policies and procedures of the entity or professional regarding 
relevant internal control measures; 
(c) the internal suspicious activity reports made and the supporting 
documentation; 
(d) the decisions of the Reporting Officer in relation to suspicious activity 
reports and the basis for the decisions; 
(e) the activities relating to complex or unusual large or unusual patterns of 
transactions undertaken or transactions which do not demonstrate any 
apparent economic or visible lawful purpose or, in relation to a 
customer, are unusual having regard to the customer’s pattern of 
previous business or known sources of business; 
(f) the activities of customers and transactions that are connected with 
jurisdictions which do not or insufficiently apply the FATF 
Recommendations; (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(g) the activities of customers and transactions which relate to jurisdictions 
on which sanctions, embargos or other restrictions are imposed; and 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(h) the account files and business correspondence with respect to 
transactions. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, the period for which records are required to be maintained shall, with 
respect to— 
Anti-Money Laundering and
114
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) subsection (1)(c) and (d), be reckoned from the date the reports were 
made or the decisions taken; and 
(b) subsection 1(e), (f), (g) and (h), be reckoned from the date the business 
relationship ended or transaction was completed. (Amended by S.I. 
4/2009) 
 (3) Any record kept by an entity or a professional with respect to training on the 
prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing provided to employees as 
required by the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and Part VII of this Code shall 
include information on— 
(a) the date the training was held; 
(b) the target audience of the training, including the names of the trainees; 
(c) the duration of the training; and 
(d) the nature of, and topics covered in, the training. 
 (4) Notwithstanding subsection (1) or any other provision of this Code to the 
contrary, where— 
(a) the Agency or Commission requires, for investigative or other purposes, 
an entity or a professional to maintain a record beyond the period 
prescribed for the keeping of that record, the entity or professional shall 
maintain the record as required by the Agency or the Commission, as 
the case may be, until such period as the Agency or Commission directs 
otherwise; and 
(b) an entity or a professional considers it appropriate, having regard to its 
or his or her business relationship or transaction with a customer, to 
maintain a record in relation to the customer beyond the period 
specified in subsection (1) or any other provision in this Code, the entity 
or professional may continue to maintain that record for such further 
period as is considered necessary. 
 (5) What records may be required by the Agency or Commission for 
investigative or other purposes shall be determined from time to time by the Agency or 
Commission in writing addressed to the entity or professional to which or to whom such 
matter relates. 
 (6) Where a business relationship between an entity or a professional and an 
applicant for business or a customer terminates at any time and for any reason, other 
than in the circumstances outlined in subsection (7), the entity or professional shall 
nevertheless maintain the records required under this Part for the period specified in this 
section. 
 (7) In circumstances where the termination of a business relationship is brought 
on (whether by the action of the entity or professional or that of the applicant for 
business or customer or by any other reason) by a change of entity or professional, the 
entity or professional— 
(a) may, where it or he or she transfers the records maintained under this 
Code to the applicant’s or customer’s new entity or professional, advise 
the latter of the period that the records have been maintained as at the 
date of transfer; and 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
115
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(b) shall, where it or he or she claims a lien on the records of the applicant 
or customer, maintain the records for the period required under this 
section as if the relationship had not terminated or until the transfer of 
the records, whichever occurs first. 
 (8) Subsection (7)(b) is without prejudice to the right of action of any person in 
relation to any lien claimed. 
 (9) Where an entity or professional fails to comply with a requirement of this 
section, it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
The period specified for the maintaining of records required under the AMLR and 
this Code is essential for purposes of ensuring an effective AML/CFT regime. The 
question will invariably arise as to what happens where a record relative to a customer, 
for instance, comprises series of transactions that were concluded on different dates. 
For purposes of providing a comprehensive and concise history with respect to the 
customer, it might not be feasible to keep different records of transactions in connection 
with the same customer (this may not be the case with one-off transactions). In such a 
case, the date specified in section 45 must be reckoned to commence from the date of the 
last transaction on record, notwithstanding that the customer’s file contains older 
transaction records as well. No attempt should be made to extricate the old records from 
the recent records in order to dispose of the old records; that could break a vital chain 
link in any subsequent money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime 
inquiry or investigation. However, where different records exist with respect to different 
transactions in relation to the same customer which by their nature do not necessarily 
form any relevant chain link, the records that can be disposed of within the prescribed 
time frame may be so disposed. It is a matter of judgment for the entity or professional 
to determine whether or not different files relating to the same customer necessarily 
form a vital chain link. 
(ii) There may be cases where a record qualifies for disposal, but needs to continue to 
be maintained. This would normally arise where the Agency or the Commission so 
directs for regulatory, enforcement, investigative or other purpose; it could also arise 
where the entity or professional on its or his or her own volition considers that it is 
essential to maintain the records in respect of a specific customer. In such cases, the 
records concerned must continue to be maintained as provided in section 45(4). 
(iii) In circumstances where a business relationship is terminated, it is crucial that the 
relevant records relating to that relationship continue to be maintained for the period 
required in accordance with the AMLR and this Code. Where the records are 
transferred to another entity or professional, the entity or professional making the 
transfer must ensure that it or he or she informs the new entity or professional of the 
period the records have been maintained as at the date of the transfer; this will assist 
the new entity or professional to fully comply with the requisite period for maintaining 
records. In a situation where an entity or professional claims a lien in respect of an 
applicant’s or customer’s records and does not transfer the records, it or he or she must 
ensure that the records are maintained for the prescribed period (5 years) so long as 
such records remain with the entity or professional. It should be noted that section 
45(7)(b) does not seek to establish any right of claim that may be asserted with respect 
Anti-Money Laundering and
116
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
to any records, but merely creates an obligation for the maintaining of records for the 
prescribed period. 
(iv) Where an entity that is a financial institution maintains a business relationship 
relative to an account that is dormant, it is required to continue to maintain records with 
respect to that account until the business relationship is terminated. This would be 
compliant with FATF Recommendation 10 and regulation 10(1) of the AMLR. The 
termination may occur by the application of an entity’s internal procedures and controls 
in relation to dormant accounts, or it may occur by virtue of a statutory prescription 
which formally provides for mechanisms (including time frames) for ending a business 
relationship (and the transfer and ownership of funds in the dormant account).] 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Outsourcing 
46. (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), an entity or a professional may outsource 
a function reposed in it or him or her under this Code on the conditions that— 
(a) the outsourcing is made pursuant to a written agreement between the 
entity or professional and the person to whom the outsourcing is made; 
(b) the outsourcing is not inconsistent with any provision of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, this Code or any other enactment relating to 
money laundering or terrorist financing; 
(c) an original copy of the agreement on outsourcing is maintained by the 
entity or professional and will be made available to the Agency or 
Commission in an inspection or upon request; 
(d) the person to whom the function is outsourced is qualified and 
competent to carry out the function outsourced to him or her and is 
resident in the Virgin Islands or a jurisdiction that is recognised 
pursuant to section 52; and 
(e) the records required to be maintained by the entity or professional for 
the purposes of the due execution of the requirements of the Anti-
money Laundering Regulations, and this Code are, unless otherwise 
required by the Regulations or this Code, maintained in a manner as to 
be easily retrievable and made available to the Agency or Commission 
by the entity or professional in an inspection or whenever requested. 
 (2) No entity or professional shall enter into an outsourcing agreement— 
(a) to retain records required by the Anti-money Laundering Regulations or 
this Code if access to those records will or is likely to be impeded by 
confidentiality or data protection restrictions; or 
(b) if the outsourcing has or is likely to have the effect of preventing or 
impeding, whether wholly or partly, the full and effective 
implementation of the requirements of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, this Code or any other enactment relating to money 
laundering or terrorist financing. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
117
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(3) Where an entity or a professional outsources a function under this Code, the 
ultimate responsibility for complying with the requirements of the Regulations and this 
Code shall remain with the entity or professional. 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
It is considered that there may arise legitimate reasons for outsourcing the 
performance of a function or functions that are prescribed under this Code in order to 
ensure full compliance with the requirements of the Code. That may be the case, for 
instance, where an entity or a professional may not have the relevant expertise to carry 
out the necessary function or functions, where the entity is part of a group of body 
corporate that is subject to and supervised for AML/CFT compliance to the standards of 
the FATF Recommendations or where the nature, resources and/or volume of business 
of the entity or professional justifies outsourcing as a better viable mechanism for 
achieving the requirements of the AMLR and this Code. The issue ultimately is one of 
judgment to be considered and made by the entity or professional. 
(ii) However, it should be noted that outsourcing is permitted only on the conditions 
outlined in section 46(1); no outsourcing may be made if the scenarios outlined in 
section 46(2) apply. Furthermore, it is fundamental for any entity or professional 
outsourcing a function to ensure that there is a written agreement to that effect and the 
person to whom the function is outsourced is qualified and competent to perform the 
function. Section 46 does not specify any requisite qualification or level of competence 
such a person must possess and accordingly the Agency and the Commission, in making 
such an assessment, will take into account the nature, volume and complexity of the 
business the entity or professional engages in, in addition to the size of the organization 
(in the case of an entity). 
(iii) It is expected that where a function is outsourced, the information relating to 
compliance with the function will reside with the entity or professional or would be so 
located as to be readily available in an inspection or upon request by the Agency or 
Commission. The duty to fulfil this obligation resides in the entity or professional 
concerned. Certain records, such as those relating to internal control systems, 
management policies and procedures, policies and procedures relating to misuse of 
technological developments, employee training manuals and (where applicable) wire 
transfer information would generally be expected to reside with the entity or 
professional for the simple reason that employees (especially new employees) are 
expected to learn and know those systems and policies and procedures and routinely 
refer to them for guidance and, in the case of wire transfer information, to use them as 
reference material in relation to the conduct of business relationships and transactions 
with respect to a customer. In any case, where an entity forms the opinion, for instance, 
that, having regard to its business or the fact that it has no employees in the Virgin 
Islands or for any other good reason, it is appropriate to outsource the retention of its 
records, it may do so but without prejudice to the restrictions outlined in section 46(2). 
(iv) Whatever function an entity or a professional decides to outsource, the ultimate 
responsibility for complying with the requirements of this Code shall rest with the entity 
or professional.] 
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Anti-Money Laundering and
118
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART VII
EMPLOYEE TRAINING
General training requirements 
47. (1) Consistent with the training obligations outlined in the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations, every entity and professional shall, having regard to its 
commercial or professional disposition and the requirements of this Code, engage in the 
training of its employees by— 
(a) ensuring that they receive appropriate and proportionate training to the 
standard and level required by the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 
in relation to money laundering and terrorist financing; and 
(b) employing appropriate systems and procedures of testing the awareness 
and understanding of the employees with respect to the training 
provided to them. 
 (2) The training for employees is not restricted to any particular class or rank of 
employees, although key training requirements will relate to key employees who are 
critical to an entity’s or a professional’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing 
regime. 
 (3) The training requirements outlined in subsection (1) shall, notwithstanding 
subsection (2), be extended— 
(a) to employees who are not considered key to an entity’s or a 
professional’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime, 
although such training may be limited to basic anti-money laundering 
and terrorist financing issues; 
(b) to temporary and contract employees, including (where feasible) 
employees of third parties who perform anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing functions under an outsourcing arrangement. 
 (4) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section and section 48— 
(a) a professional who carries on a relevant business as a sole trader who 
does not employ any staff; 
(b) an entity that does not employ any staff in the Virgin Islands and whose 
relevant business is managed by another entity in the Virgin Islands, 
whether solely or in conjunction with persons outside the Virgin 
Islands; 
(c) an entity that is a fund registered or recognised, under the Securities and 
Investment Business Act; or (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
(d) any other professional or entity that is exempted in writing by the 
Commission upon application, 
is exempt from the requirements of this section and section 48. 
 (5) For the purposes of— 
(a) subsection (4)(a) and (b), “relevant business” has the meaning 
prescribed in regulation 2(1) of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations; and 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
119
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(b) subsection (4)(b), the relevant business of the following entities is 
deemed to be managed by another entity in the Virgin Islands— 
 (i) an entity holding a restricted Class II or Class III trust licence 
issued under the Banks and Trust Companies Act; and 
 (ii) an entity holding a Class I or Class II trust licence issued under the 
Banks and Trust Companies Act that does not have a physical 
presence in the Virgin Islands; and 
 (iii) an entity holding a licence under the Insurance Act that does not 
carry on domestic business within the meaning of that Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
In order to effectively implement a risk-based approach to countering money 
laundering and terrorist financing and apply good judgment, one must build the 
necessary expertise within the relevant entity or within the business of the relevant 
professional. This may be carried out through training, recruiting of qualified staff, 
relying on professional advice or simply by learning on the job. Whatever method is 
employed, it is essential that an entity or a professional positions itself or himself or 
herself to demonstrate the knowledge and competence of its or his or her employees on 
AML/CFT matters. Without such a body of expertise, adopting the risk-based approach 
is bound to be fraught with inevitable difficulties leading to flawed judgments being 
made: risks may be over-estimated or under-estimated, thus creating unintended 
vulnerabilities that are inimical to the business of the entity or the professional. An 
appropriate regime that effectively trains employees to the desired level and standard 
provides a cost effective platform for the entity or professional implementing it; 
available resources are channelled only to the vulnerable areas of business, and 
otherwise disproportionate time spent in documenting the rationale for decisions will be 
saved considerably. 
(ii) Training rendered must be appropriate and proportional with respect to money 
laundering and terrorist financing. It must be so designed as to enable key employees to 
detect and avert acts of money laundering and terrorist financing. The training would 
also require a good understanding and appreciation of the established laws, regulations, 
policies, processes and procedures on AML/CFT. It is not sufficient to simply train key 
staff; other staff must be considered as whole to the organisation and if not made aware, 
they could be used by unscrupulous persons to engage in money laundering or terrorist 
activities with respect to the entity or professional that employs them. At the bare 
minimum, so-called non-essential staff must be trained in the basic aspects of AML/CFT. 
(iii) The frequency, delivery mechanism and focus of a training in AML/CFT must be 
tailored in a way that provides employees with updates on current and emerging 
AML/CFT issues and appropriately tests their continued awareness and understanding 
of established AML/CFT measures within the laws and the entity’s or professional’s 
internal control systems (see section 48). It is expected, however, that such training will 
be afforded on an appropriate periodic basis. 
(iv) The training of employees may take different forms – internal workshops or 
seminars provided by the entity or professional, a domestic industry-organised training, 
overseas training, etc. Whatever formula is adopted, it is imperative that the 
requirements of section 47 are complied with and the necessary record keeping 
requirements outlined in Part VII of this Code are complied with.] 
Anti-Money Laundering and
120
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Frequency, delivery and focus of training 
48. (1) Every entity and professional shall take such measures as are necessary to 
provide its or his or her employees at appropriate frequencies with adequate training in 
the recognition and handling of transactions, having regard to regulation 16 of the Anti-
money Laundering Regulations. 
 (2) The training provided by an entity or a professional shall— 
(a) be tailored to the appropriate employee responsibility; 
(b) be conducted at the appropriate level of detail to ensure a good 
understanding and appreciation of the issues relative to money 
laundering and terrorist financing; 
(c) be held at an appropriate frequency and, in any case, at least once every 
year as required by regulation 16(3) of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, having regard to the level of risk posed by the business in 
which the entity or professional is involved; and 
(d) be designed to test employee knowledge of anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing issues commensurate with established standards. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
(i) 
Training employees on AML/CFT matters should go a long way in ensuring that 
such employees are aware of the relevant AML/CFT legal and regulatory restrictions, 
prohibitions and compliance measures, including the established internal control 
systems of an entity or a professional. This will enable them to learn and assess their 
own potential liabilities for breaches and non-compliance – regulatory, disciplinary 
and/or criminal – and the potential implications for the entity or the professional. 
(ii) Each entity or professional as a matter of internal decision, determines its or his or 
her own scheme of creating employee awareness, understanding and compliance with 
AML/CFT measures. This may be achieved by—
making AML/CFT compliance requirements a part of their job descriptions;
providing them with relevant manuals of internal controls systems and 
procedures and testing them thereon;
 
testing, on a periodic basis, their knowledge and understanding of the laws, 
policies and procedures, including the internal controls systems of the entity 
or professional, relating to AML/CFT; and/or 
 
creating incentives to motivate a greater understanding and awareness of 
AML/CFT matters; for example, promotion or bonus payment may be linked 
to an employee’s knowledge of AML/CFT matters. 
Merely providing employees with copies of the laws and other documentation on 
AML/CFT is not sufficient to constitute training. Training must be actual and must 
involve the trainer and the trainee on a face to face arrangement; this would enable the 
trainee to ask relevant questions to better understand the subject of training. 
(iii) It is not acceptable to limit training on a one-off basis. Training must also involve 
re-training. For the purposes of this Part of the Code and the AMLR, training or re-
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
121
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
training must be afforded at least once every year, and on a more frequent basis with 
respect to businesses that are most vulnerable to money laundering and terrorist 
financing activities. Every training that is held must be properly documented in 
accordance with the record keeping requirements outlined in Part VI of this Code.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Vetting employees 
49. (1) An entity or a professional shall assess the competence and probity of its or 
his or her employees at the time of their recruitment and at any subsequent change in 
role and subject their competence and probity to on-going monitoring. 
 (2) Where an entity or a professional terminates or dismisses an employee on 
account of the employee’s competence with respect to compliance with anti-money 
laundering and terrorist financing requirements or on account of his or her probity, the 
entity or professional, as the case may be, shall, within 7 days of the termination or 
dismissal, notify in writing the Agency and the Commission of that fact providing 
detailed information as would enable the Agency and the Commission to fully 
understand the circumstances and reason for the termination or dismissal. 
 (3) No action in relation to an employee’s probity shall be taken in a manner 
that would amount to tipping off the employee contrary to section 23D of the Drug 
Trafficking Offences Act or section 31 of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
 (4) An entity or a professional that fails to comply with subsection (2) or (3) 
commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
Competence and probity are critical to the efficient and effective functioning of an 
AML/CFT regime. Persons whose competence fall short of the desired standards after 
having been trained and whose continued employment is likely to pose potential 
AML/CFT risks, having regard to their specific area of employment, must be closely 
monitored. Where as a consequence their employment is terminated, this must be 
notified immediately to the Agency and the Commission. The same applies where it is 
their probity that is in question on account of which they are terminated or dismissed. 
An entity or a professional must not shield such an employee by failing to notify the 
Agency and the Commission, notwithstanding any internal settlement that might have 
been reached; to do so will constitute an offence and criminal proceedings may be 
instituted against the entity or professional concerned.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
PART VIII 
MISCELLANEOUS
Information exchange between public authorities 
50. (1) The Agency and the Commission shall establish a system of dialogue with 
key public bodies within the Virgin Islands as a means of creating, enhancing and 
promoting public awareness of issues relating to money laundering and terrorist 
financing. 
 (2) The system of dialogue referred to in subsection (1) shall include— 
Anti-Money Laundering and
122
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) the promotion of cooperation and information exchange between the 
Agency and the Commission and the public bodies in order to detect 
and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing activities; 
 (b) the notification by the parties concerned to each other of any activity 
that involves or may relate to a potential criminal conduct or a breach of 
the provisions of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act, Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act, Anti-terrorism (Financial and Other Measures) 
(Overseas Territories) Order 2002, Anti-money Laundering Regulations
or this Code; 
(c) the rendering of necessary assistance to each other in respect of each 
other’s law enforcement or regulatory functions which aid the 
upholding of the requirements or punishment of breaches of the 
enactments referred to in paragraph (b); and 
(d) the promotion of cooperation with foreign regulatory, administrative and 
law enforcement officials in relation to any money laundering or 
terrorist financing matter. 
 (3) The public bodies referred to in subsection (1) may include— 
(a) the Attorney General’s Chambers; 
(b) the Customs Department; 
(c) the Royal Virgin Islands Police Force; 
(d) the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions; 
(e) the Post Office; 
(f) the Airport Authority; 
(g) the Immigration Department; 
(h) the Shipping Registry; 
(i) the Trade and Investment Promotion Department; and 
(j) any other department or authority with a key function in forestalling and 
preventing money laundering and terrorist financing activities. 
 (4) Where the Managing Director of the Commission considers it necessary for 
purposes of subsections (1) and (2) to convene a meeting with the public bodies referred 
to in subsection (3), he or she shall convene such meeting at such time and place as he or 
she determines and the Rules of procedure for the meeting shall be such as he or she 
shall consider fit. 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation: 
In order to foster a strong AML/CFT regime, cooperation between domestic law 
enforcement and regulatory authorities is essential. The institutions outlined in section 
50 all play significant roles which, collectively employed, can provide an effective 
mechanism for dialogue on matters pertaining to the forestalling, detection and 
prevention of money laundering. While this process takes place on an informal basis, 
this Code seeks to formalise it, having regard to the AML/CFT obligations and other 
measures provided in the DTOA, PCCA, the 2002 Order, AMLR and this Code. An 
effective domestic information exchange system would ably aid the implementation of 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
123
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
the legal and legislative machineries already established to combat activities of money 
laundering and terrorist financing.]
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Information exchange with private sector 
51. (1) The Agency and the Commission shall promote cooperation with the Joint 
Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory Committee established under 
section 27A(1) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) The Agency and the Commission shall, either through the Joint Anti-money 
Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory Committee or directly, encourage and 
promote dialogue with private sector entities and professionals with a view—  
(a) to establishing a broad-based understanding and awareness of issues 
concerning money laundering and terrorist financing; and 
(b) promoting the exchange of information on money laundering and 
terrorist financing matters. 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation:
(i) 
The Commission, Agency and public and private sector bodies should be able to 
share information and feedback on money laundering and terrorist financing issues, 
especially in relation to potential risks and identified vulnerabilities. This process would 
allow all parties concerned to benefit from meaningful inputs which can be used to 
guide the process of reviewing and strengthening currently established systems and 
properly insulating the institution and the Territory from the scourge of money 
laundering and terrorist financing. 
(ii) The extent of information exchange between the public and private sectors 
(including the Agency and the Commission) should always be well defined so as to 
protect sensitive information or trade secrets or confidential matters or relations not 
subject to public knowledge from being disseminated. The establishment of a system of 
dialogue should provide a meaningful avenue for synthesising and sorting information 
relevant to AML/CFT matters. However, the following types of information could 
usefully be shared— 
assessments regarding jurisdiction risk;
typologies or assessments showing how persons engaged in money 
laundering and terrorist financing abuse the facilities afforded by the 
financial system; 
feedback on suspicious activity reports and other reports that are made to the 
Agency; 
targeted unclassified intelligence, including, in appropriate cases, targeted 
confidential information; 
jurisdictions that are under specific sanctions, embargos or other restrictions 
and whether or not these have been imposed by the UN, EU, other country or 
group and the reasons therefor, including restrictions applied by financial 
institutions; 
Anti-Money Laundering and
124
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
countries, persons or organisations whose assets or transactions are under a 
freezing order or decree; and 
 
politically exposed persons with questionable backgrounds or activities trying 
to establish business relationships within the Territory.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Recognised foreign jurisdictions 
52. (1) Every entity and professional shall pay special attention to a business 
relationship and transaction that relates to a person from a jurisdiction which the 
Commission considers does not apply or insufficiently applies the FATF 
Recommendations with respect to money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 (2) The jurisdictions listed in Schedule 2 are, for the purposes of this Code and 
the Anti-money Laundering Regulations recognised as jurisdictions— 
(a) which apply the FATF Recommendations and which the Commission 
considers, for the purposes of subsection (1), apply or sufficiently apply 
those Recommendations; and 
(b) whose anti-money laundering and terrorist financing laws are equivalent 
with the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this 
Code. 
 (3) Where the Commission is satisfied that a jurisdiction listed in Schedule 2 no 
longer satisfies or insufficiently satisfies the FATF Recommendations, it may amend the 
Schedule to remove that jurisdiction from the Schedule and from the date of the removal 
of the jurisdiction from the Schedule, that jurisdiction shall cease to be recognised as 
having anti-money laundering and terrorist financing laws equivalent to the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations and this Code. 
 (4) Where an entity or a professional relies on this section for not effecting any 
obligation under the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code with respect to 
any business relationship relating to or arising from a recognised jurisdiction to the 
extent permitted by this Code, it shall, with effect from the date of removal of the 
jurisdiction from Schedule 2, perform the obligations imposed by the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations and this Code in relation to business relationships connected to 
that jurisdiction. 
 (5) The Commission may from time to time— 
(a) issue advisory warnings to entities and professionals pursuant to the 
Financial Services Commission Act or this Code, advising entities and 
professionals of weaknesses in the anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing systems of other jurisdictions; 
(b) amend Schedule 2, and every amendment of the Schedule shall be 
published in the Gazette.  
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation 
(i) Perhaps the principal advantage of placing reliance on this section and the related 
Schedule 2 is that business relationships emanating from or relating to listed 
jurisdictions would generally attract the application of reduced CDD measures, as the 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
125
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
listed jurisdictions would be considered by the Agency and the Commission as 
implementing 
AML/CFT 
requirements 
that 
are 
equivalent 
to 
the 
FATF 
Recommendations as enunciated in the AMLR and this Code. The list of jurisdictions 
should not be considered as static; the Commission, with the assistance of the Agency as 
necessary, would review the list from time to time to determine the need or otherwise for 
amending it. The amendment may entail additions to or removal from the list of 
jurisdictions as the Commission considers appropriate. While the Commission may be 
expected to apply the principle of reciprocity in granting recognitions, its principal 
objective is to identify jurisdictions that it is satisfied comply with AML/CFT standards 
that are equivalent to those prescribed in the AMLR and this Code. 
(ii) The consideration and acceptance of business from an entity in a jurisdiction that is 
not included in Schedule 2 of the Code is not precluded. However, in relation to such 
non-listed jurisdictions, the entity or professional considering for acceptance any 
business from such non-listed jurisdictions has the obligation to ensure full compliance 
with the AML/CFT due diligence compliance measures outlined in the AMLR and this 
Code. Thus an introduction from a non-listed jurisdiction, as opposed to a listed 
jurisdiction, will not be treated by the Agency or the Commission as reliable unless the 
appropriate CDD and, where applicable ECDD, measures have been carried out with 
respect to a business relationship. 
(iii) It is advisable, however, that entities and professionals should not place too heavy 
a reliance on the list outlined in Schedule 2 when in appropriate cases prudence dictates 
otherwise. It is always good practice for consideration to be given to the particular 
circumstances of the business relationship concerned, the prevailing political and 
economic circumstances in a listed jurisdiction and the changing commercial 
environment prevailing at the relevant time. Any of these and other relevant factors may 
call for increased vigilance and re-assessment on the part of entities and professionals 
before placing a “carte blanche” reliance on business emanating from or relating to 
such listed jurisdiction. It is therefore important for all entities and professionals to keep 
attuned to developing events around the world, especially those that may relate to or 
adversely affect listed jurisdictions (notwithstanding that the Commission has not issued 
any advisory pursuant to the exercise of its powers under the FSC Act or this Code). 
(iv) In circumstances where a listed jurisdiction is removed from Schedule 2, the 
Commission will publish that fact in the Gazette and on its website. Entities and 
professionals that had previously relied on Schedule 2 to apply reduced CDD measures 
in relation to a listed jurisdiction that has been de-listed are required to apply, from the 
effective date of the publication or the date notified in the publication, the required CDD 
measures outlined in the AMLR and this Code. Failure to do so would be contravening 
the requirements of section 52 of the Code. 
(v) 
In circumstances where an entity does not have any employees in the Virgin 
Islands or is not managed or administered in the Virgin Islands, it would nevertheless be 
considered and accepted by the Agency and the Commission as being compliant with 
this Code if the entity is regulated in a jurisdiction that is recognised pursuant to section 
52 (see Schedule 2). Thus a mutual fund that is registered or recognised under the 
Securities and Investment Business Act  but whose administrator or manager does not 
reside in the Virgin Islands will be accepted to be compliant with the requirements of 
this Code if 2 conditions are met: firstly, that there is a written contractual agreement 
between the fund and the administrator or manager for the latter to perform the 
requisite CDD requirements; and secondly, that the fund complies with the anti-money 
laundering and terrorist financing obligations of a jurisdiction that is recognised 
Anti-Money Laundering and
126
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
pursuant to section 52; the recognised jurisdiction is treated as having AML/CFT 
measures equivalent to those established in the AMLR and this Code. On the other hand, 
a fund that is not registered or recognised under the Securities and Investment Business 
Act does not fall within the scope of this Code (as it is subject to the laws of the 
jurisdiction in which it is established). However, if such fund wishes to engage in any 
business activity, such as soliciting investors in the Virgin Islands, it must first comply 
with the Securities and Investment Business Act, in which case the provisions of this 
Code would apply accordingly. For guidance on solicitation in the Virgin Islands by 
mutual funds, reference may be made to the Policy Guidance issued by the Commission 
under the Securities and Investment Business Act. 
(vi) In terms of recognising a foreign jurisdiction which has equivalent AML/CFT 
requirements to the standard of the FATF Recommendations, the Commission considers 
whether the jurisdiction has laws, regulations or other enforceable means to effectively 
combat money laundering and terrorist financing. It is guided in this process by the 
following factors (which may be considered individually or in combination)— 
 
whether the jurisdiction is a member of the FATF, CFATF or other FATF 
regional style body which has been examined and assessed to have a good 
compliance and largely compliant rating with respect to the FATF 
Recommendations; 
 
whether the jurisdiction has undergone an independent assessment of its 
AML/CFT framework by the IMF or other independent body that has 
responsibility for carrying out such assessment; 
 
the enactments in the jurisdiction and other regulatory and enforcement 
regimes to combat money laundering and terrorist financing (any difference 
in language or approach in fulfilling the FATF Recommendations is 
immaterial); 
 
other publicly available information relating to the effectiveness of the 
jurisdiction’s legal, regulatory and enforcement regimes. 
(vii) With respect to determining whether a recognised jurisdiction should cease to be 
recognised and therefore removed from Schedule 2, the Commission considers whether 
the jurisdiction continues to maintain the factors that justified its inclusion in Schedule 
2. If therefore the jurisdiction alters its AML/CFT enactments in a manner as to reduce 
the level of effectiveness of the legal framework for AML/CFT compliance, or a 
subsequent assessment poorly rates the jurisdiction’s AML/CFT compliance level, or 
other publicly available information demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the 
jurisdiction’s AML/CFT framework, the Commission will consider the desirability of 
continuing to recognise the jurisdiction and act accordingly.
(viii) Where an entity or a professional considers that the Commission should recognise 
a jurisdiction that is not listed in Schedule 2, it may do so in writing addressed to the 
Commission outlining its reasons. The entity or professional would be expected to have 
carried out its research into the proposed jurisdiction’s AML/CFT framework using the 
factors outlined in paragraph (vi) above and provide necessary evidence. The basis of 
any conclusion must properly and adequately demonstrate that the proposed jurisdiction 
has laws, Regulations and other enforceable means that meet the standards established  
 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
127
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
by the FATF Recommendations. The Commission is also open to receiving similar 
representation from any relevant authority of a foreign jurisdiction that seeks to have 
that jurisdiction recognised by the Commission under section 52 of this Code.]  
(Substituted by S.I. 4/2009) 
Obligations of foreign branches, subsidiaries, etc. 
53. (1) Where an entity that is regulated in the Virgin Islands has branches, foreign 
subsidiaries or representative offices operating in foreign jurisdictions, it shall ensure 
that those branches, subsidiaries or representative offices operating in those other 
jurisdictions observe standards that are at least equivalent to the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations and this Code. 
 
(1A) An entity shall, in particular, ensure that the requirement of subsection (1) is 
observed by its branches, subsidiaries or representative offices that operate in foreign 
jurisdictions which do not or which insufficiently apply anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing standards equivalent to those of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations and this Code. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) Where the established standards of compliance under Virgin Islands laws, 
Rules or policies differ from those of the jurisdiction in which the entity’s branches, 
subsidiaries or representative offices operate, the entity shall ensure that the branches, 
subsidiaries or representative offices observe the higher standards established in their 
jurisdiction of operation. 
 (3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents an entity from requiring its foreign 
branches, subsidiaries or representative offices from observing the standards established 
under the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and this Code to the extent permitted by 
the laws of the jurisdiction in which the branches, subsidiaries or representative offices 
operate. 
 
(3A) An entity that has branches, subsidiaries or representative offices operating 
in foreign jurisdictions shall notify the Agency and the Commission in writing if any of 
the entity’s branches, subsidiaries or representative offices is unable to observe 
appropriate anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures on account of the 
fact that such observance is prohibited by the laws, policies or other measures of the 
foreign jurisdiction in which it operates. (Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 
(3B) Where a notification is provided pursuant to subsection (3A)— 
(a) the entity concerned may consider the desirability of continuing the 
operation of the branch, subsidiary or representative office in the 
foreign jurisdiction and act accordingly; and 
(b) the Agency and the Commission shall liaise and consider what steps, if 
any, need to be adopted to properly and efficiently deal with the 
notification, including the need or otherwise of providing necessary 
advice to the entity concerned.  
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (4) An entity that fails to comply with the requirements of this section commits 
an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act. 
 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and
128
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
[Explanation:
An entity that operates a foreign branch, subsidiary or representative office is required 
to ensure that such foreign branch, subsidiary or representative office operates to the 
standards established by or at least equivalent to the AMLR and this Code. It is expected 
that the foreign jurisdiction of operation will normally have standards consistent with 
and adequately reflective of those established by the FATF. In circumstances where the 
established standards differ, the entity’s foreign branch, subsidiary or representative 
office is required to adopt the higher standards applicable in its jurisdiction of 
operation. However, where a branch, subsidiary or representative office is unable to 
observe or fully implement appropriate AML/CFT measures on account of any 
prohibition or other restriction by the laws of its jurisdiction of operation, it is 
incumbent that it advises the entity of that fact. The entity is required to make the 
decision whether or not it is prudent to continue operating such branch, subsidiary or 
representative office in the foreign jurisdiction so long as the observance or 
implementation of AML/CFT measures continues to be prohibited or restricted in some 
other way in that jurisdiction. In making that assessment, the entity may wish to consider 
several factors, the most important of which should be—
(a) whether continued operation would be inconsistent with the obligations 
of the entity under BVI law generally, but in particular under the AMLR 
and this Code which may give rise to some liability; and 
(b) the need to maintain the entity’s reputation and the reputation of the 
Virgin Islands. 
Where the entity makes a determination to continue the operations of its branch, 
subsidiary or representative office under circumstances that effectively negate the full 
observance of the AML/CFT standards, then it assumes full responsibility of the 
consequences that flow from such a decision.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Application of counter-measures 
54. (1) Where the Commission forms the opinion that a jurisdiction in relation to 
which the Virgin Islands engages in business or the provision of any service through an 
entity or a professional— 
(a) does not apply or insufficiently applies the FATF Recommendations; 
(b) has received an unsatisfactory or poor rating from the FATF, CFATF or 
any other similar organisation reviewing the jurisdiction’s anti-money 
laundering and terrorist financing regime; or 
(c) has no specific regulatory body or agency corresponding to the 
Commission or Agency which renders assistance on request to 
authorities in the Virgin Islands with respect to money laundering and 
terrorist financing activities, 
the Commission may apply such counter-measures as it deems fit in relation to that 
jurisdiction. 
 (2) The counter-measures referred to in subsection (1) in relation to a 
jurisdiction may include any of the following— 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
129
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(a) issuing advisories in accordance with section 4(1)(l) of the Financial 
Services Commission Act of the jurisdiction’s non-compliance with the 
FATF Recommendations, including warning entities that are not 
regulated by the Commission that transactions with individuals or legal 
persons in the jurisdiction may run the risk of money laundering or 
terrorist financing; 
(b) applying stringent requirements for the identification and verification of 
applicants for business or customers in the jurisdiction, including 
requirements for the establishment of beneficial owners of legal persons 
before any business relationship is established; 
(c) requiring enhanced reporting mechanisms or systematic reporting of 
financial transactions on the basis that such transactions with the 
jurisdiction are more likely to be suspicious; 
(d) limiting business relationships or financial transactions with the 
jurisdiction or persons within that jurisdiction; 
(e) prohibiting an entity or a professional from engaging in any kind of 
business relationship emanating from or relating to such jurisdiction. 
 (3) Where the Commission applies a counter-measure pursuant to subsection 
(1), an entity or professional that contravenes or fails to comply with the counter-
measure commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27(4) of 
the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act. 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
[Explanation:
This section seeks to implement FATF Recommendation 21 in relation to jurisdictions 
that do no apply or insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations. It is expected that 
the Commission will monitor and review as necessary foreign jurisdictions that do not 
apply or insufficiently apply the Recommendations and to issue such counter-measures 
as the Commission considers appropriate. As a matter of policy and to avoid any 
surprises, the Commission will make its views known to the financial services industry 
before taking any action to apply counter-measures. The essence of such measures is 
simply to protect entities and professionals against dealings in possible money 
laundering or terrorist financing activities with persons (legal or natural) in such 
jurisdictions, in addition to assuring the reputation of the Virgin Islands. Accordingly, it 
is expected that entities and professionals will be vigilant and ensure that the 
jurisdictions with or in which they form business relationships have in place AML/CFT 
measures; where these are considered insufficient, an entity or a professional must, as a 
first step, employ enhanced customer due diligence measures to identify and verify the 
relevant applicant for business or customer.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
Form of report 
55. (1) Subject to subsection (2), where a report is required to be made or submitted 
by any person pursuant to a provision of this Code, the report shall be made or submitted 
in writing by that person— 
(a) in a legible and sufficiently detailed form; 
(b) in full compliance with the requirements of the section and any related 
provisions of this Code pursuant to which it is made or submitted; and 
Anti-Money Laundering and
130
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) with sufficient information and clarity as would enable the receiver of 
the report to understand its contents and determine its compliance with 
the requirements of this Code or any provision of the Code pursuant to 
which the report is made or submitted. 
 (2) Where a report is required to be made or submitted by an employee of an 
entity or a professional pursuant to any provision of this Code, the report may be made 
or submitted in writing in such form as the employee’s entity or professional may 
determine in compliance with the requirements outlined in subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c). 
 (3) A report that fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be treated as not made 
or submitted in compliance with this Code. 
Guidance on types of suspicious activities or transactions 
56. (1) Schedule 3 provides guidance to enable an entity or a professional to 
establish the types of activities or transactions that may give rise to suspicion of money 
laundering or terrorist financing. (Amended by S.I. 4/2009) 
 (2) Subsection (1) shall not be interpreted in a way that deviates or is 
inconsistent with the requirements or prohibitions of this Code. 
Offences and penalties 
57. (1) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of this Code 
specified under column 1 of Schedule 4 commits the corresponding offence specified in 
column 2 of that Schedule in relation to the section specified and is liable up to the 
maximum of the penalty stated—  
(a) in column 3, with respect to an entity; or 
(b) in column 4, with respect to an individual. 
(Amended by S.I. 4/2009)
(2) Where an offence is committed by a body corporate the liability of whose 
members is limited, then, notwithstanding and without affecting the liability of the body 
corporate, any person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director, 
general manager, secretary or other like officer of that body corporate or was purporting 
to act in that capacity is liable to the penalty as if he or she has personally committed 
that offence, and if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commission that he or she 
consented to, or connived at, or did not exercise all such reasonable diligence as he or 
she ought in the circumstances to have exercised to prevent the offence, having regard to 
the nature of his or her functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances. 
 (3) The penalties imposed pursuant to subsection (1) shall be enforced as 
administrative penalties in accordance with section 27(7) of the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act and collected and applied by the Commission as prescribed in subsection 
(8) of that Act. 
 (4) This section does not apply to an offence which is prescribed under this 
Code to be dealt with in accordance with section 27(4) of the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act. 
Revocation  
58. (1) The Anti-money Laundering Guidance Notes, 1999 are revoked. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
131
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
(2) (Omitted)  
[Explanation:
The presumption is taken that entities and professionals would have, prior to the coming 
into force of this Code, been complying with the requirements of the revoked Guidance 
Notes, 1999, especially the relevant CDD measures. Accordingly, the requirements of 
this Code with respect to CDD measures would apply only in relation to new business 
relationships that are established upon the coming into force of the Code. However, 
entities and professionals are required to comply with the requirements of this Code to 
carry out periodic reviews and updates of the customer due diligence information in 
relation to customers. In particular, entities and professionals must pay particular 
attention to reviews that reveal the need for engaging ECDD measures (either because a 
customer has risen from low risk to higher risk or otherwise in relation to its risk 
profile) and act in accordance with the requirements of this Code.] 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
__________ 
Anti-Money Laundering and
132
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 4A(8))
BEST PRACTICES FOR CHARITIES AND  
OTHER ASSOCIATIONS NOT FOR PROFIT 
 
A. 
Introduction 
It is generally recognised globally that the set-up and operation of charities and other 
associations not for profit are susceptible to misuse for money laundering and terrorist 
financing purposes. While taking on different forms (such as association, organization, 
foundation, corporation, committee for fund raising or community service, limited guarantee 
company and unlimited company, all of which may be formed pursuant to the BVI Business 
Companies Act or some other enabling enactment) to provide “noble” services for charitable, 
educational, cultural, religious, community, social and fraternal purposes, recent 
developments have shown that charities and other associations not for profit have become 
convenient conduits for facilitating the laundering of ill-gotten gains and for providing 
funding to organizations that carry out or facilitate the carrying out of terrorist activities. 
Accordingly, it is essential that every charity or other association not for profit exercises 
vigilance in its dealings with persons who present themselves or appear to be friends of and 
benevolent givers of donations for general or specific activities. 
It is therefore significant that every charity and other association not for profit understands 
and appreciates its objectives and adopt appropriate measures designed to protect it from 
misuse for money laundering, terrorist or other financial criminal activities. These Best 
Practices are not designed to prevent or discourage charities and other associations not for 
profit from sourcing and accepting funds from reliable and legitimate sources. Rather, they 
are designed to assist charities and other associations not for profit to better insulate 
themselves against abuse for money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime 
activities. 
In this vein, charities and other associations not for profit should note that there may be 
business relationships or transactions their organizations may be concerned with which their 
managers may not be fully aware or have full appreciation of. The same may apply to donors 
who give out in good faith (whether through solicitation or otherwise), just to have their 
donations channelled for unlawful or other unintended purposes. Thus it becomes incumbent 
on everyone (charities and other associations not for profit, their employees, donors and 
supervisors or regulators) to guard the perimeter against abuse and misuse. 
B. 
Guiding Principles 
These Best Practices are guided by the following principles— 
1. 
Charities and other associations not for profit will be encouraged to 
promote, encourage and safeguard within the context of the laws of the 
Virgin Islands the practice of charitable giving and the strong and 
diversified community of institutions through which they operate. 
2. 
The effective oversight of charities and other associations not for profit and 
their activities is a cooperative undertaking which requires the effective 
participation of the Agency, Commission, Government, charity supporters 
(donors and other philanthropic persons) and the persons whom charities 
and other associations not for profit serve. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
133
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
3. 
The Agency (as supervisor or any other body replacing the Agency as such) 
and charities and other associations not for profit must at all times seek to 
promote transparency and accountability and, more broadly, common social 
welfare and security goals with respect to the operations of the charities and 
other associations not for profit. 
4. 
While small charities and other associations not for profit which by their 
operations do not engage in raising significant amounts of money in excess 
of $50,000 per annum from private and public sources or which merely 
concentrate on redistributing resources among their members may not pose 
serious threats to money laundering or terrorist financing activity and 
therefore not require regular and enhanced oversight, they must recognise 
that they are susceptible to unlawful laundering and financing activity and 
adopt appropriate measures to protect themselves and the reputation of the 
Virgin Islands. 
5. 
In particular, charities and other associations not for profit must establish 
transparency, accountability and probity in the manner in which they 
collect, transmit or distribute funds. 
6. 
All charities and other associations not for profit must recognise that no 
charitable endeavour must be undertaken that directly or indirectly supports 
money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime, including 
actions that may serve to induce or compensate for participation in such 
activity. 
7. 
While charities and other associations not for profit are (until otherwise 
replaced by an overriding enactment) supervised by the Agency pursuant to 
section 9(2) of the Code, they are encouraged to develop, maintain and 
strengthen mechanisms for self-regulation as a significant means of 
decreasing the risks associated with money laundering, terrorist financing 
and other financial crimes. 
C. 
Adopting Preventive Measures 
The measures outlined hereunder must be viewed as supplementing the provisions of the 
Code and are not designed to derogate from the intent, objectives or obligations of the Code. 
(a) Charities and other associations not for profit must adopt measures that 
ensure transparency in their financial dealings. This must take into 
account the nature, volume and complexity of, as well as the risk that may 
be associated with, the financial dealings. In this respect, charities and 
other associations not for profit with significant annual transactions not 
exceeding [$25,000] must, to the extent feasible and necessary, observe 
the following guidelines— 
 (i) prepare and maintain full and accurate programme budgets that reflect 
all programme expenses, including recording the identities of 
recipients and how funds are utilized; 
 (ii) adopt and maintain a system of independent auditing as a means of 
ensuring that accounts accurately reflect the reality of finances; and 
 (iii) maintain registered bank accounts in which to keep funds and to utilize 
formal channels for transferring funds, whether locally or overseas, and 
perform other financial transactions. 
Anti-Money Laundering and
134
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) It is essential that every charity and other association not for profit adopts 
appropriate policies and procedures which ensure the adequate 
verification of their activities, especially where they operate foreign 
activities. This aids the process of determining whether planned 
programmes are being implemented as intended. The following guidelines 
must therefore be observed— 
 (i) every solicitation for a donation must accurately and transparently 
inform donors of the purpose and intent for which the donation is being 
collected; 
 (ii) funds collected through solicitation and funds received through 
unsolicited donations must be utilized for the purpose for which they 
are collected or received; 
 (iii) in order to ensure that funds are applied for the benefit of intended 
beneficiaries, the following must be carefully considered— 
 whether the programme or project for which funds are provided 
have in fact been carried out; 
 whether the intended beneficiaries exist; 
 whether the intended beneficiaries have received the funds meant 
for them; and 
 whether all the funds, assets and premises have been fully 
accounted for; 
 (iv) where, having regard to the nature, size and complexity of and risk 
associated with a programme or project, it becomes necessary to 
conduct direct field audits, this must be carried out in order to guard 
against malfeasance and detect any misdirection of funds; and 
 (v) where funds are delivered to an overseas location, appropriate 
measures must be adopted to account for the funds and make a 
determination as regards their use. 
(c) Central to the efficient and effective functioning of a charity and other 
association not for profit is the establishment of a robust administrative 
machinery that ensures the appropriate and routine documentation of 
administrative, managerial, compliance and policy development and 
control measures with respect to the operations of the organization. 
Accordingly, the following guidelines must be observed— 
 (i) directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to perform 
such functions) must act with due diligence and ensure that the 
organization functions and operates ethically; 
 (ii) directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to perform 
such functions) need to know the persons acting in the name of the 
organization (such as executive directors, diplomats, fiduciaries and 
those with signing authority on behalf of the organization); 
 (iii) directors and/or managers (or those appointed or deputed to perform 
such functions) must exercise due care, diligence and probity and, 
adopt where necessary, proactive verification measures to ensure that 
their partner organizations and those to which they provide funding, 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
135
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
services or material support are not being penetrated or manipulated by 
criminal groups, including terrorists; 
 (iv) the directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to 
perform such functions) have responsibilities to— 
 their organization and its members to act honestly and with 
vigilance to ensure the financial health of the organization; 
 their organization and its members to diligently dedicate their 
service to the mandate(s) of the organization; 
 the persons, such as donors, clients and suppliers, with whom the 
organization interacts; 
 the Agency which has supervisory responsibility over the 
organization; and 
 the persons, including the Government, who provide donations or 
other forms of financial assistance to the organization, whether on a 
regular basis or otherwise; 
 (v) where a charity or other association not for profit functions with a 
board of directors, the board must— 
 have in place adequate measures to positively identify every board 
member, both executive and non-executive; 
 meet on a reasonably periodic basis, keep records of its proceedings 
(including the decisions taken); 
 have in place appropriate formal arrangements regarding the 
manner in which appointments to the board are effected and how 
board members may be removed; 
 adopt appropriate measures to ensure the conduct of an annual 
independent review of the finances and accounts of the 
organization; 
 adopt policies and procedures which ensure appropriate financial 
controls over programme spending, including programmes that are 
undertaken through agreements with other organizations; 
 ensure that there is an appropriate balance between spending on 
direct programme delivery and administration; and 
 ensure that there are appropriate policies and procedures to prevent 
the use of the organisation’s facilities or assets to support or 
facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial 
crime. 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009) 
____________ 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and
136
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 2  
(Section 52) 
RECOGNISED JURISDICTIONS
 
  1. Andorra 
30. Isle of Man
2. Argentina
3. Aruba
31. Italy
4. Australia
32. Japan
5. Bahamas
33. Jersey
34. Latvia
6. Barbados
35. Liechtenstein
7. Bermuda
36. Luxembourg
8. Belgium
37. Malta
  9. Brazil
38. Mauritius 
10. Bulgaria 
 
11. Canada 
39. Mexico 
12. Cayman Islands
40. Monaco 
13. Chile 
41. Netherlands
14. China 
 
15. Curacao 
42. New Zealand
16. Cyprus
 
17. Denmark
43. Norway 
 
44. Panama 
18. Dubai
45. Portugal  
19. Estonia 
46. Russia
20. Finland
 
21. France
47. Singapore 
22. Germany
48. Spain  
23. Gibraltar
49. South Africa  
24. Greece
50. St. Lucia
25. Guernsey 
51. Sweden 
26. Hong Kong
52. Switzerland  
27. Hungary
53. United Kingdom 
28. Iceland
54. United States of America. 
29. Ireland
55. Uruguay 
(Inserted by S.I. 4/2009 and amended by S.I.s 42/2009, 46/2010, 86/2010 and 4/2017) 
____________ 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
137
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
SCHEDULE 3
(Section 56) 
TYPES OF SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITIES OR TRANSACTIONS
1.
Money Laundering using cash transactions—
(a) unusually large cash deposits made by an individual or company whose 
ostensible business activities would normally be generated by cheques and 
other instruments; 
(b) substantial increases in cash deposits of any individual or business without 
apparent cause, especially if such deposits are subsequently transferred 
within a short period out of the account and/or to a destination not normally 
associated with the customer; 
(c) customers who deposit cash by means of numerous credit slips so that the 
total of each deposit is unremarkable, but the total of all the credits is 
significant; 
(d) company accounts whose transactions, both deposits and withdrawals, are 
denominated by cash rather than the forms of debit and credit normally 
associated with commercial operations (e.g. cheques, Letters of Credit, Bills 
of Exchange, etc.); 
(e) customers who constantly pay in or deposit cash to cover requests for 
money transfers, bankers drafts or other negotiable and readily marketable 
money instruments; 
(f) customers who seek to exchange large quantities of low denomination notes 
for those of higher denomination; 
(g) frequent exchange of cash into other currencies; 
(h) branches that have a great deal more cash transactions than usual (Head 
Office statistics detect aberrations in cash transactions); 
(i) customers whose deposits contain counterfeit notes or forged instruments; 
(j) customers transferring large sums of money to or from overseas locations 
with instruments for payment in cash; and 
(k) large cash deposits using night safe facilities, thereby avoiding direct 
contact with bank staff. 
2. 
Money Laundering using bank accounts— 
(a) customers who wish to maintain a number of trustee or client accounts 
which do not appear consistent with the type of business, including 
transactions which involve nominees; 
(b) customers who have numerous accounts and pay in amounts of cash to each 
of them in circumstances in which the total of credits would be a large 
amount; 
(c) any individual or company whose account shows virtually no normal 
personal banking or business related activities, but is used to receive or 
disburse large sums which have no obvious purpose or relationship to the 
Anti-Money Laundering and
138
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
account holder and/or his or her business (e.g. a substantial increase in 
turnover on an account); 
(d) reluctance to provide normal information when opening an account, 
providing minimal or fictitious information or, when applying to open an 
account, providing information that is difficult or expensive for the 
institution to verify; 
(e) customers who appear to have accounts with several institutions within the 
same locality, especially when the bank is aware of a regular consolidation 
process from such accounts prior to a request for onward transmission of 
the funds; 
(f) matching of payments out with credits paid in cash on the same or previous 
day; 
(g) paying in large third party cheques endorsed in favour of the customer; 
(h) large cash withdrawals from a previously dormant/inactive account, or from 
an account which has just received an unexpected large credit from abroad; 
(i) customers who together, and simultaneously, use separate tellers to conduct 
large cash transactions or foreign exchange transactions; 
(j) greater use of safe deposit facilities and increased activity by individuals; 
the use of sealed packets deposited and withdrawn; 
(k) companies’ representatives avoiding contact with the branch; 
(l) substantial increases in deposits of cash or negotiable instruments by a 
professional firm or company, using client accounts or in-house company or 
trust accounts, especially if the deposits are promptly transferred between 
other client, company and trust accounts; 
(m) customers who decline to provide information that in normal circumstances 
would make the customer eligible for credit or for other banking services 
that would be regarded as valuable; 
(n) insufficient use of normal banking facilities (e.g. avoidance of high interest 
rate facilities for large balances); and 
(o) large number of individuals making payments into the same account 
without an adequate explanation. 
3. 
Money Laundering using investment related transactions— 
(a) purchasing of securities to be held by the institution in safe custody, where 
this does not appear appropriate given the customer’s apparent standing; 
(b) request by customers for investment management or administration services 
(either foreign currency or securities) where the source of the funds is 
unclear or not consistent with the customer’s apparent standing; 
(c) large or unusual settlements of securities in cash form; and 
(d) buying and selling of a security with no discernible purpose or in 
circumstances which appear unusual. 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
139
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
4.
Money Laundering by offshore international activity—
(a) customer introduced by an overseas branch, affiliate or other bank based in 
countries where production of drugs or drug trafficking may be prevalent;
(b) use of letters of credit and other methods of trade finance to move money 
between countries where such trade is not consistent with the customer’s 
usual business; 
(c) building up of large balances, not consistent with the known turnover of the 
customer’s business, and subsequent transfer to account(s) held overseas; 
(d) unexplained electronic fund transfers by customers, foreign currency drafts 
or other negotiable instruments to be issued; 
(e) frequent requests for travelers cheques or foreign currency drafts or other 
negotiable instruments to be issued; and 
(f) frequent paying in of travelers cheques or foreign currency drafts 
particularly if originating from overseas. 
5. 
Money Laundering involving financial institution employees and agents— 
(a) changes in employee characteristics, (e.g. lavish lifestyles or avoiding 
taking holidays); 
(b) changes in employee or agent performance, (e.g. the salesman selling 
products for cash has remarkable or unexpected increase in performance); 
and 
(c) any dealing with an agent where the identity of the ultimate beneficiary or 
counterpart is undisclosed, contrary to normal procedure for the type of 
business concerned. 
6. 
Money Laundering by secured and unsecured lending— 
(a) customers who repay problem loans unexpectedly; 
(b) request to borrow against assets held by the institution or a third party, 
where the origin of the assets in not known or the assets are inconsistent 
with the customer’s standing; and 
(c) request by a customer for an institution to provide or arrange finance where 
the source of the customer’s financial contribution to deal is unclear, 
particularly where property is involved. 
7. 
Sales and dealing staff 
(A) New Business 
Although long-standing customers may be laundering money through an investment business 
it is more likely to be a new customer who may use one or more accounts for a short period 
only and may use false names and fictitious companies. 
Investment may be direct with a local institution or indirect via an intermediary who “doesn’t 
ask too many awkward questions”, especially (but not only) in a jurisdiction where money 
laundering is not legislated against or where the Rules are not rigorously enforced. 
The following situations will usually give rise to the need for additional enquiries— 
Anti-Money Laundering and
140
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(i) a personal client for whom verification of identity proves unusually 
difficult and who is reluctant to provide details; 
 (ii) a corporate/trust client where there are difficulties and delays in 
obtaining copies of the accounts or other documents of incorporation; 
 (iii) a client with no discernible reason for using the firm’s service, e.g. 
clients with distant addresses who could find the same services nearer 
their home base; clients whose requirements are not in the normal 
pattern of the firm’s business which could be more easily serviced 
elsewhere; and 
 (iv) any transaction in which the counterparty to the transaction is 
unknown. 
(B) Intermediaries 
There are many clearly legitimate reasons for a client’s use of an intermediary. However, the 
use of intermediaries does introduce further parties into the transaction thus increasing 
opacity and, depending on the designation of the account, preserving anonymity. Likewise 
there are a number of legitimate reasons for dealing via intermediaries on a “numbered 
account” basis; however, this is also a useful tactic which may be used by the money 
launderer to delay, obscure or avoid detection. 
Any apparently unnecessary use of an intermediary in the transaction should give rise to 
further enquiry. 
(C) Dealing patterns & abnormal transactions 
The aim of the money launderer is to introduce as many layers as possible. This means that 
the money will pass through a number of sources and through a number of different persons 
or entities. Long-standing and apparently legitimate customer accounts may be used to 
launder money innocently, as a favour, or due to the exercise of undue pressure. 
Examples of unusual dealing patterns and abnormal transactions may be as follows— 
(D) Dealing patterns— 
 (i) A large number of security transactions across a number of 
jurisdictions; 
 (ii) Transactions not in keeping with the investor’s normal activity, the 
financial markets in which the investor is active and the business which 
the investor operates; 
 (iii) Buying and selling of a security with no discernible purpose or in 
circumstances which appear unusual, e.g. churning at the client’s 
request; 
 (iv) Low grade securities purchased in an overseas jurisdiction, sold locally 
and high grade securities purchased with the proceeds; and 
 (v) Bearer securities held outside a recognised custodial system. 
(E) Abnormal transactions— 
 (i) a number of transactions by the same counter-party in small amounts 
of the same security, each purchased for cash and then sold in one 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
141
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
transaction, the proceeds being credited to an account different from 
the original account; 
 (ii) any transaction in which the nature, size or frequency appears unusual, 
e.g. early termination of packaged products at a loss due to front end 
loading; early cancellation, especially where cash had been tendered or 
the refund cheque is to a third party; 
 (iii) transfer of investments to apparently unrelated third parties; 
 (iv) transactions not in keeping with normal practice in the market to which 
they relate, e.g. with reference to market size and frequency, or at off-
market prices; and 
 (v) other transactions linked to the transaction in question which could be 
designed to disguise money and divert it into other forms or to other 
destinations or beneficiaries. 
8. 
Settlements 
(A) Payment 
Money launderers will often have substantial amounts of cash to dispose of and will use a 
variety of sources. Cash settlement through an independent financial adviser or broker may 
not in itself be suspicious; however, large or unusual settlements of securities deals in cash 
and settlements in cash to a large securities house will usually provide cause for further 
enquiry. Examples of unusual payment settlement may be as follows— 
 (i) a number of transactions by the same counter-party in small amounts 
of the same security, each purchased for cash and then sold in one 
transaction; 
 (ii) large transaction settlement by cash; and 
 (iii) payment by way of cheque or money transfer where there is a variation 
between the account holder/ signatory and the customer. 
(B) Registration and delivery 
Settlement by registration of securities in the name of an unverified third party should always 
prompt further enquiry. 
Bearer securities, held outside a recognised custodial system, are extremely portable and 
anonymous instruments which may serve the purposes of the money launderer well. Their 
presentation in settlement or as collateral should therefore always prompt further enquiry as 
should the following— 
 (i) settlement to be made by way of bearer securities from outside a 
recognised clearing system; and 
 (ii) allotment letters for new issues in the name of persons other than the 
client. 
(C) Disposition 
As previously stated, the aim of money launderers is to take “dirty” cash and turn it into 
“clean” spendable money or to pay for further shipments of drugs, etc. Many of those at the 
root of the underlying crime will be seeking to remove the money from the jurisdiction in 
Anti-Money Laundering and
142
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
which the cash has been received, with a view to its being received by those criminal 
elements for whom it is ultimately destined in a manner which cannot easily be traced. 
The following situations should therefore give rise to further enquiries— 
 (i) payment to a third party without any apparent connection with the 
investor; 
 (ii) settlement either by registration or delivery of securities to be made to 
an unverified third party; and 
 (iii) abnormal settlement instructions, including payment to apparently 
unconnected parties. 
9. 
Company Formation and Management 
(A) Suspicious circumstances relating to the customer’s behaviour— 
 (i) the purchase of companies which have no obvious commercial 
purpose; 
 (ii) sales invoice totals exceeding known value of goods; 
 (iii) customers who appear uninterested in legitimate tax avoidance 
schemes; 
 (iv) the customer pays over the odds or sells at an undervaluation; 
 (v) the customer makes unusually large cash payments in relation to 
business activities which would normally be paid by cheques, banker’s 
drafts etc.; 
 (vi) customers transferring large sums of money to or from overseas 
locations with instructions for payment in cash; 
 (vii) customers who have numerous bank accounts and pay amounts of cash 
into all those accounts which, if taken in total, amount to a large 
overall sum; and 
 (viii) paying into bank accounts large third party cheques endorsed in favour 
of the customers. 
(B) Potentially suspicious secrecy might involve— 
 (i) excessive or unnecessary use of nominees; 
 (ii) unnecessary granting of power of attorney; 
 (iii) performing “execution only” transactions; 
 (iv) using a client account rather than paying for things directly; 
 (v) use of mailing address; 
 (vi) unwillingness to disclose the source of funds; and 
(vii) unwillingness to disclose identity of ultimate beneficial owners. 
(C) Suspicious circumstances in groups of companies— 
 (i) subsidiaries which have no apparent purpose; 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and 
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice 
143
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 (ii) companies which continuously make substantial losses; 
 (iii) complex group structures without cause; 
 (iv) uneconomic group structures for tax purposes; 
 (v) frequent changes in shareholders and directors; 
 (vi) unexplained transfers of significant sums through several bank 
accounts; and 
(vii) use of bank accounts in several currencies without reason. 
Notes: 
1. 
None of the above factors on their own necessarily mean that a customer or other 
person is involved in money laundering. However, it may be that a combination of some of 
these factors could raise suspicions. 
2. 
What does or does not give rise to a suspicion will depend on the particular 
circumstances. 
__________ 
Anti-Money Laundering and
144
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 4 
(Section 57(1)) 
OFFENCES AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of 
offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty (Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
4A(3), (5), (6) 
and (8) 
Failure to comply with 
requirements of 
subsection (1), or carry 
out customer due 
diligence and record 
keeping measures, or 
accepting donations linked 
to money laundering or 
terrorist financing 
 
$75,000 
$70,000 
11
Failure to establish and 
maintain a written and 
effective system of 
internal controls
$75,000 
$70,000 
11A 
Failure to maintain 
appropriate policies, 
procedures and other 
measures to prevent 
misuse of technological 
developments 
 
$75,000 
$70,000 
12
Failure to carry out money 
laundering and terrorist 
financing risk assessments 
$75,000 
$70,000 
14
Failure to comply with the 
measures required under 
section 14(2) 
 
$75,000 
$70,000 
15(1) 
Failure by an employee to 
comply with internal 
control systems of an 
employer, or to disclose a 
suspicion 
 
- 
$65,000 
16(3) 
Failure to comply with the 
prescribed obligations in 
relation to a Reporting 
Officer 
 
$55,000 
$50,000 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice  
145
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of 
offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty 
(Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
18(1)
Failure by an employee to 
report a suspicious 
activity or transaction 
 
- 
$70,000 
19(2), (4) and (5) 
Failure to engage in or 
undertake customer due 
diligence, or additional 
customer due diligence in 
the case of a trustee of a 
trust or a legal person 
$75,000 
$70,000 
20
Failure to engage in 
enhanced customer due 
diligence 
$75,000 
$70,000 
21
Failure to review and keep 
up-to-date customer due 
diligence information in 
the required manner 
$65,000 
$60,000 
29(2) and (4) 
Failure to adopt relevant 
measures or additional 
measures or checks in 
non-face to face 
relationships 
$75,000 
$70,000 
30(1) and (3) 
Failure to ensure proper 
certification of document, 
or accepting certified 
document contrary to the 
section 
$75,000 
$70,000 
30(4) 
Failure to verify existence 
of certifier of document 
$65,000 
$60,000 
31(2) and (5) 
Failure to record an 
introduction of an 
applicant for business or a 
customer, or to ensure that 
an introducer reviews and 
maintains customer due 
diligence information as 
required
$60,000 
$55,000 
Anti-Money Laundering and
146
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of 
offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty 
(Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
31A(4) 
Failure to amend or revise 
a written agreement 
within the prescribed 
period to comply with a 
condition stipulated in 
section 31A 
 
$75,000 
$50,000 
31B 
(a) Failure 
to 
test 
a 
business relationship 
with a third party 
(b) Failure to maintain a 
record of testing of 
business relationship 
with a third party or 
to provide copy of 
testing 
to 
the 
Commission 
The breach of or non-
compliance 
with 
any 
provision for which a 
penalty is not specifically 
provided 
$65,000 
 
$60,000 
 
 
 
 
$50,000 
$60,000 
 
$55,000 
 
 
 
 
$50,000 
32
Failure to take post 
verification steps required 
under the section 
 
$55,000 
$50,000 
36
Failure by a correspondent 
bank to satisfy itself 
regarding necessary 
customer due diligence 
measures required to be 
undertaken by a 
respondent bank 
 
$75,000 
$75,000 
39(1) and (3) 
Failure to ensure transfer 
of funds accompanied by 
full originator 
information, or to verify 
full originator information 
 
$70,000 
$65,000 
39(6) 
Failure to keep records of 
full originator information 
on payer 
 
$75,000 
$70,000 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS
Anti-Money Laundering and
 
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice  
147
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of 
offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty 
(Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
41(2) and (5) 
Failure to keep 
information received on 
payer with the transfer of 
funds, or to provide upon 
request within the 
specified time information 
on payer that the 
intermediary payment 
service provider has 
received 
$70,000 
$65,000 
41(6)
Failure to keep records of 
information on payer for 
the specified period 
$75,000
$70,000
42(2) 
Failure to maintain 
records in the required 
form 
$50,000 
$50,000 
43(1) and (2) 
Failure to ensure required 
contents of record, or to 
ensure that the manner of 
keeping records does not 
hinder monitoring of 
business relationships and 
transactions 
$55,000 
$50,000 
44
Failure to maintain 
transaction records 
$75,000 
$70,000 
46(2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entering into an 
outsourcing agreement for 
the retention of records 
whereby access to such 
records is impeded by 
confidentiality or data 
protection restrictions, or 
the outsourcing prevents 
or impedes the 
implementation  of the 
Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, this Code or 
other enactment relating 
to money laundering or 
terrorist financing  
$75,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$70,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and
148
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
LAW OF
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of 
offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty 
(Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
47(1) 
Failure to train employees 
$70,000 
$65,000 
48(1) and (2) 
Failure to provide training 
at appropriate frequencies 
or to the desired level and 
standard 
 
$70,000 
$65,000 
52
Failure to pay special 
attention to business 
relationships or 
transactions connected to 
a jurisdiction that does not 
apply or insufficiently 
applies FATF 
Recommendations, or to 
perform obligations in 
relation to a jurisdiction 
that is no longer 
recognised 
 
$75,000
$70,000
54(1) and (2) 
Failure to make or submit 
a report in the proper form 
$50,000 
$50,000 
(Substituted by S.I. 37/2012 and amended by S.I. 75/2015) 
__________ 
 
 
 
 
