VIRGIN ISLANDS 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST FINANCING  
(AMENDMENT) CODE OF PRACTICE, 2022 
 
 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
Section  
1… 
Citation and commencement 
2… 
Section 2 amended 
3… 
Section 3 amended 
4… 
Section 4 amended 
5… 
Section 4A amended 
6… 
Section 5 revoked and substituted 
7… 
Section 6 amended 
8… 
Section 7 amended  
9… 
Section 8 amended 
10… Section 9 amended  
11… Section 10 amended  
12… Section 11 amended 
13… Section 11A revoked  
14… Section 12 revoked and substituted  
15… Section 13 amended 
16… Section 14 amended 
17… Section 15 amended 
18… Section 16 amended 
19… Section 17 amended 
20… Section 18 amended 
21… Section 19 amended 
22… Section 20 amended  
23… Section 21 amended  
24… Section 22 amended 
25… Section 23 amended  
26… Section 24 amended 
27… Section 25 amended 
28… Section 26 revoked 
29… Section 27 revoked  
30… Section 28 amended  
31… Explanation to section 29 amended 
32… Explanation to section 30 amended 
33… Section 31 amended 
34… Section 31A amended 
35… Section 31B amended 
36… Section 33 amended 
37… Explanation to section 34 amended. 
 
2 
 
38… Section 35 amended  
39… Explanation to section 36 amended  
40… Section 37 amended  
41… Section 39 amended  
42… Section 40 amended  
43… Section 41 amended 
44… Section 41A inserted  
45… Part VA inserted 
46… Section 42 amended 
47… Section 43 revoked 
48… Section 44 amended 
49… Section 45 amended 
50… Section 46 amended 
51… Section 47 amended  
52… Section 48 amended  
53… Section 49 amended  
54… Section 50 amended  
55… Section 51 amended 
56… Section 52 revoked 
57… Section 53 amended 
58… Section 53A inserted 
59… Section 54 amended 
60… Section 55 amended 
61… Section 56 amended  
62… Schedule 1 revoked and substituted 
63… Schedule 2 revoked 
64… Schedule 4 revoked and substituted  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
STATUTORY INSTRUMENT 2022 NO. 79 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act 
(Revised Edition 2020) 
 
Financial Services Commission Act   
(Revised Edition 2020) 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Code of Practice, 2022 
[Gazetted 29th August, 2022] 
The Financial Services Commission, pursuant to the powers conferred by section 27 (1) of the 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, Revised Edition 2020 and after consultation with the Joint 
Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory Committee, amends the Anti-Money 
Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, Revised Edition 2020. 
 
Citation and commencement  
1. (1) This Code may be cited as the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
(Amendment) Code of Practice, 2022. 
 
(2) Subject to subsection (3), this Code shall come into force on the 29th day of August, 
2022.  
 
(3) The provisions of this Code relating to virtual assets transfers shall come into force on 
the 1st day of December, 2022.  
 
Section 2 amended 
2. Section 2 of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, Revised 
Edition 2020 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal Code of Practice”) is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  by inserting in their appropriate alphabetical order, the following new 
definitions: 
“control”, for the purposes of the definition of “beneficial owner”, means 
having an influence over the activities of an applicant for business or 
customer without any ownership interest, and includes 
(a) 
having an influence through close family relationships, or historical 
or contractual associations; or 
(b) 
using, enjoying or benefitting from the assets owned by the 
applicant for business or customer;   
“country” includes a territory or other jurisdiction, however described, that is a 
part of or in association or is assimilated with another country, or that, 
 
4 
 
though not independent, has internal self-government or other control with 
regard to the running of its own affairs, whether generally or specifically; 
“financial group” means a group designated in writing as such by the 
Commission or the Agency that consists of 
(a) 
a parent company, or any other type of legal person exercising control 
and coordinating functions over the rest of the group for the 
application of group supervision of AML/CFT policies and 
procedures; and  
(b) 
its branches and subsidiaries that are subject to the AML/CFT 
policies and procedures; 
“money laundering” has the meaning ascribed to it under section 2 (1) of the 
Act;  
“NPO” means a body of persons whether incorporated or unincorporated, 
established solely or primarily for the promotion of charitable, religious, 
cultural, educational, social or fraternal purposes, or other activities or 
programmes for the benefit of the public and which raises or disburses 
funds in pursuance of its objectives primarily within the Territory;  
“proliferation financing” has the meaning ascribed to it under section 6 of the 
Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act, No. 20 of 2021;  
“terrorist financing” has the meaning ascribed to it in section 2(1) of the 
Financial Investigation Agency Act, Revised Edition 2020; 
(ii)  by deleting the definition of “applicant for business” and substituting the 
following new definition 
“applicant for business” means the party intending to enter into a business 
relationship or one-off transaction with an entity or professional;”; 
(iii) by deleting the definition of “beneficial owner” and substituting the following 
definition 
“beneficial owner” means the natural person who ultimately owns or controls an 
applicant for business or a customer or on whose behalf a transaction or 
activity is being conducted, and includes, though not restricted to  
 
(a) 
in the case of a body corporate 
(i) as it relates to a legal person that is not a company whose 
securities are listed on a recognised exchange, a natural person 
who ultimately owns or controls, whether directly or indirectly, 
10% or more of the shares or voting rights in the legal person; 
and 
 (ii) as it relates to any body corporate, a natural person who 
otherwise exercises control over the management of the legal 
person; and  
 
5 
 
 
(b) 
in the case of a partnership  
(i) a natural person who is ultimately entitled to or controls, 
whether directly or indirectly, 10% or more share of the capital 
or profits of the partnership or 10% or more voting rights in the 
partnership; and  
(ii) a natural person who otherwise exercises control over the 
management of the partnership;  
 
(c) 
in the case of a trust 
 (i) any natural person, characteristic or class of persons entitled to 
a vested right in the trust; and  
(ii) the trustee, the settlor, the protector (if any), or any other person 
who has control over the trust; and 
(d) 
in the case of any other type of legal person or legal arrangement, the 
natural persons in equivalent or similar positions or who exercise 
similar controls to those detailed in paragraphs (a) to (c);” 
(iv) by deleting the definition of “high risk countries” and substituting the following 
definition 
“high risk countries” means countries which 
(a)  
are subject to sanctions, embargos or similar restrictive measures 
imposed under any other enactment or by the United Nations, or other 
regional or international organisation of which the Virgin Islands is a 
member or associate member, or of which the United Kingdom is a 
member and the sanctions, embargos or similar measures have been 
extended to the Virgin Islands by an Order in Council or through the 
exercise of any Royal Prerogative;  
(b) 
satisfy any of the risk qualifications outlined in this Code;  
(c) 
the Commission identifies and provides in a list published in the 
Gazette as representing high risk countries; or  
(d) 
the Commission identifies in an advisory or a warning issued 
pursuant to the Financial Services Commission Act as having 
significant weaknesses in its anti-money laundering anti-terrorist 
financing or anti-proliferation financing systems, or as engaging in 
or promoting activities that are considered detrimental to public 
interest;  
(v)  in the definition of “key staff” or “key employee”, by inserting after the word 
“transactions”, the words “, or have responsibility for undertaking functions 
outlined in this Code”; 
(vi) by deleting the definition of “politically exposed person” or “PEP” and 
substituting the following definition 
 
6 
 
““politically exposed person” or “PEP” means an individual who is or has been 
entrusted with prominent public functions or is a member of senior 
management of an international organisation, including members of his or 
her immediate family, or persons who are known to be close associates of 
such an individual, and includes classifications established pursuant to 
section 22 (5);” 
(vii) in the definition of “Reporting Officer”, by deleting the words “Anti-money 
Laundering Reporting Officer” and substituting the words “Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer”;  
(viii) in paragraph (a) of the definition of “termination”, by deleting the words, “or 
the completion of the last transaction” and substituting the words, “, expiration 
of a contract or on the basis of the terms agreed upon in an agreement”;  
(ix) by revoking the definitions of “non-account holding customer”, “non-paying 
account”, “Steering Committee” and “underlying beneficial owner”; and  
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting the words, “are provided merely to serve as a guide 
and to” and substituting the words, “serve as guidance and”.  
 
Section 3 amended 
3. Section 3 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following new paragraph 
“(a) to outline the relevant requirements of the Act, Drug Trafficking Offences Act, 
Revised Edition 2020, Financial Investigation Agency Act, Revised Edition 
2020, Counter-Terrorism Act, No. 33 of 2021, Proliferation Financing 
(Prohibition) Act, No 20 of 2021 and any other similar enactment, with respect 
to the detection and prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing;”; and  
(b) in paragraphs (b) and (e), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing”.  
 
The Explanation to section 3 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
(a) by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting it with the following paragraph:  
“(i) 
The Virgin Islands is a key player in the provision of financial 
services business (domestic and international) and must be committed to 
ensuring compliance with internationally established standards of 
regulation and enforcement relating to the detection and prevention of 
money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. As a member 
of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF), the Territory is 
required to fully comply with the requirements of the 40 Recommendations 
of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The Territory is also a member 
of key organisations – International Organisation of Securities Commission 
(IOSCO), International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), Group 
 
7 
 
of International Finance Centre Supervisors (GIFCS) and Egmont – which 
apply FATF Recommendations as part of their sector specific benchmarks 
relative to anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures in the 
areas of securities and investment, insurance, banking, fiduciary services 
and intelligence gathering and dissemination. In addition, the Territory fully 
observes all of the established standards designed to effectively combat acts 
of terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the financing 
of these activities.” 
(b) in paragraphs (ii) and (iii), by deleting the words “and terrorist financing” 
wherever they appear and substituting the words “, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing”; and  
(c) by deleting paragraph (iv) and substituting it with the following paragraph  
“(iv) 
Accordingly, the objectives set out in this Code outline the 
Territory’s commitment to good corporate governance and the promotion 
of international cooperation to ensure that global financial markets are not 
misused for illicit purposes. The provisions of the Code may be viewed as 
risk sensitive standards that are relevant and prudent to prevent the 
business of entities and professionals from being caught up in unsuspecting 
acts of money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing. 
The Code, in effect, supplements the provisions of the Drug Trafficking Act, 
(DTOA), Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act (PCCA), Financial 
Investigation Agency Act, (FIAA), Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) 
Act (PFPA), Counter Terrorism Act (CTA), The Terrorism (United Nations 
and Other Measures (Overseas Territories) Order (“the 2001 Order”), The 
Anti-terrorism (Financial and Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) 
Order (“the 2002 Order”), Anti-money Laundering Regulations (AMLR 
and other related enactments).” 
 
  
Section 4 amended 
4. Section 4 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(b) an NPO to the extent specified in section 4A.” 
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting the words, “regulation 6 (1) or (3)” and substituting 
the words, “regulation 6 (3)”; and 
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words “money laundering or terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing”.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 4 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted with the following 
 
“(i) 
Section 27 (2) of the PCCA outlines the scope of the Commission’s exercise 
of its powers to issue a Code of Practice. The definition of “entity” in section 2 
 
8 
 
essentially covers the scope permitted by section 27 (2) of the PCCA as fully 
outlined in the AMLR. The application section seeks to implement AML/CFT 
requirements on regulated entities and non-regulated entities within the defined 
parameters of FATF Recommendations, that are viewed as forming vital links in 
the anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) 
efforts. The PCCA empowers the Commission to designate other businesses which 
are considered vulnerable to activities of money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing and thus fall within the definition of “entity”. These have 
been designated in the Non-financial Business (Designation) Notice which lists 
additional businesses that fall within the regime of the Code. The Notice may be 
amended from time to time to ensure a well-insulated business sector against the 
activities of money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing, 
having regard, in particular, to the risks posed. 
(ii) 
Any entity or professional that is caught under this section of the Code must 
ensure full compliance with the due diligence, record keeping measures and all 
other requirements outlined in this Code. 
(iii) 
Section 4 (2) takes into account the exceptions to identification procedures 
outlined in regulation 6 (3) of the Anti-money Money Laundering Regulations with 
respect to the conduct of relevant business (as defined in regulation 2 (1) of the 
regulations).  
(iv) 
However, it must be borne in mind at all times that the burden of ensuring 
compliance with the obligations set out in this Code rests with the relevant entity 
or professional as outlined in section 2 (5). Accordingly, where an entity or a 
professional knows or suspects that an applicant for business or a customer who 
wishes to form a business relationship or conduct a one-off transaction is engaged 
in money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing, it or he or she 
must not establish the business relationship or undertake the one-off transaction. 
Regulation 6 (4) (b) of the AMLR already provides for such a prohibition in relation 
to money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing which is 
further prohibited pursuant to section 23(2D) of this Code. It would be incumbent 
under such circumstances for the entity or professional to submit a report to the 
Agency outlining its suspicion.” 
 
 
  
 
 
Section 4A amended 
5. Section 4A of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in the heading, by deleting the words, “charities, etc.” and substituting the word, 
“NPOs”;  
(b) in subsection (1) 
 (i) in the opening paragraph, by deleting the words, “charity or other association 
not for profit”, and substituting the word, “NPO”;  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph 
 
9 
 
“(a) is incorporated or otherwise formed and carries on its business in the 
Virgin Islands; or”;  
 (iii) in paragraph (b), by deleting the words “in or from within the Virgin Islands; 
or” and substituting the words, “in the Virgin Islands; and”; and 
(iv) in paragraph (c), by deleting the words, “is established as provided in paragraph 
(a) and”;  
(c) in subsection (2) 
 (i) by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following opening 
paragraph  
 
 ““An NPO shall –”;  
(ii)  in paragraphs (a) and (c), by deleting the words, “charity or other association 
not for profit” and respectively substituting the word, “NPO”; and  
(iii) by deleting paragraph (d) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(d) adopt such measures as are considered appropriate to ensure that any funds 
or other assets that are received, maintained or transferred by or through 
the NPO are not for, or diverted to support 
(i)  the activities of any terrorist, terrorist organisation or other organised 
criminal group; or 
(ii) any money laundering or proliferation financing activity.”;  
(d) in subsection (3), by inserting after the words, “appear to be linked” the words, “to 
other donations from the same donor or other donors”;  
(e) in subsection (4), by inserting after the words, “or its equivalent in any”, the word, 
“other”;  
(f) in subsection (5), by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following 
opening paragraph 
“An NPO that receives a donation shall carry out the requisite customer due 
diligence and record keeping measures under this Code on any person who makes 
a donation (whether in cash or otherwise in excess of the amount or its equivalent 
stipulated in this section), including”;  
(g) by inserting after subsection (5), the following new subsection 
“(5A) Subsection (5) also applies where a person makes a donation to an NPO 
and does not wish to have its or his or her name publicly revealed.”;  
(h) in subsection (6), by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following 
opening paragraph 
“Where an NPO suspects that a donation may be linked to money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing, it shall”; and  
(i) by inserting after subsection (6), the following new subsection 
 
10 
 
“(6A) Where an NPO suspects that a donation that has been accepted may be 
linked to money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing, it shall 
report its suspicion to the Agency and act in accordance with any direction given 
by the Agency.”. 
 
The Explanation to section 4A of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted with the following:  
 
“(i) 
As noted in section 4, this Code equally applies to NPOs as if they were 
entities. NPOs are not immune to abuse for money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing activities and must accordingly adopt all necessary due 
diligence measures outlined in this Code to ensure compliance therewith. It is 
expected that in applying the provisions of this Code to an NPO, those provisions 
of the Code will be applied with such necessary modification as would enable 
proper compliance with the provisions. Where there is uncertainty, advice must be 
sought from the Agency and such advice complied with accordingly. Ultimately, the 
responsibility for full compliance with the requirements of this Code rests with the 
NPO (as already noted in section 2 (5)). 
 
(ii) 
Every NPO should expect that the laws, policies and guidelines relating to 
their activities and operations would be reviewed from time to time to verify 
compliance with the obligations outlined in this Code and ensure that they are not 
being used for money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing 
purposes. It is therefore important that every NPO brings to the attention of the 
Agency any activity with respect to which it has a suspicion of money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing. This would enable the Agency to 
guide and assist the NPO from being used for money laundering, terrorist financing 
and/or proliferation financing purposes.” 
 
  
Section 5 revoked and substituted 
6. Section 5 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked and substituted by the following 
section 
“Compliance with this Code 
5. (1) Every entity and professional is required to fully comply with this Code 
which provides requirements relating to money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing.  
 
 
 
 
 
(2) An entity or a professional shall adopt such standards and systems of 
internal controls as it or he or she considers commensurate with its or his or her 
risk-based methodology in order to reduce or mitigate identified money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing risks.” 
 
11 
 
 
 
 
[Explanation 
The Explanation to section 5 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted with the following:  
 
“It should be noted that the imperatives outlined in this Code must be fully complied 
with by every entity and professional. The Code itself must be viewed as setting 
standards of compliance. These standards must be applied on a risk sensitive basis, 
whereby the entity or professional places a higher level of focus, resources and 
measures to matters that pose a higher level of ML/TF risk.    Risk-based standards 
or systems of internal control must be appropriately documented and made 
available when required during an inspection or otherwise in pursuance of the 
provisions or objectives of this Code.]” 
  
 
 
Section 6 amended 
7. Section 6 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(1) The Agency is the reporting authority of the Virgin Islands and is 
responsible for matters relating to suspicious transaction reports concerning money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing.”  
(b) in subsection (3) 
 (i) in paragraph (d), by deleting the word “and” at the end of the paragraph;  
(ii) in paragraph (e), by deleting the full-stop at the end of the paragraph and 
substituting the word, “; and”; and  
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (e), the following new paragraph  
“(f) such other information as the Agency, in the exercise of its powers under 
this Code, Financial Investigation Agency Act, Revised Edition 2020 or 
any other enactment, may require in writing.”. 
 
Section 7 amended 
8. Section 7 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph  
“(a) assign it to such investigating officer or other officer of the Agency as the 
Director of the Agency determines;”;  
(ii) in paragraph (b), by inserting after the words, “investigating officer” the words, 
“or other officer of the Agency”;  
(b) in subsection (3), by deleting the words, “the advice and guidance of the Agency” 
and substituting the words, “any direction given by the Agency”; and  
 
12 
 
(c) in subsection (5) 
 (i) by deleting the words, “advice or guidance” and substituting the word, 
“direction”; and  
(ii) by deleting the words, “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” and substituting 
the words, “the Act”. 
 
 The Explanation to section 7 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
 
 
 
(a) 
in paragraph (i) by:  
(i) 
inserting after the words “in addition to those prescribed in 
the DTOA, PCCA”, the words “, CTA, PFPA and other 
related enactments”; and  
(ii) 
by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing”;  
(b) 
in paragraph (iii) by inserting after the words, “the DTOA, PCCA” 
the words, “PFPA, CTA”; and  
 
 
 
(c) 
deleting paragraph (iv) and substituting the following paragraph  
“(iv) 
While it is considered good practice for the entity or 
professional that filed a suspicious transaction report to be 
informed of the status of its report to the Agency, it should be noted 
that such information would essentially relate only to the general 
status; entities or professionals must not expect details of any 
investigation which may jeopardise or in any way compromise the 
investigation. It is expected that where the Agency, after the receipt 
of a report, decides not to proceed to investigation of the report or 
concludes investigation in relation to the report, it will advise the 
reporting entity or professional accordingly. Such advice may 
include information as to whether the person to whom the report 
relates poses a higher level of risk, measures to adopt to effectively 
deal with the associated risk, how such person should be dealt with 
now and in the future, how any pending and future transaction with 
the person should be handled, etc. Advice may also include feedback 
on the quality of the report filed and suggestions for improvement in 
reports going forward.” 
 
 
Section 8 amended  
9. Section 8 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection  
 “(1) It is the duty of the Commission to monitor compliance by its licensees 
with this Code and any other enactment (including any other code and any 
 
13 
 
guidelines) relating to money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing as may be prescribed by this Code or any other enactment.”; 
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting the word “also”; and  
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing”. 
 
The Explanation to section 8 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following 
 
“(i) 
The Commission has a statutory duty to ensure full compliance with 
AML/CFT measures by those persons that it regulates. Similarly, the Agency is 
statutorily responsible for ensuring AML/CFT compliance of all entities and 
professionals that are not regulated by the Commission.  Accordingly, any entity or 
professional that is caught under section 27 (2) of the PCCA – be it a licensee 
regulated by the Commission, a non-financial business and profession or 
Commission-designated entity or professional– falls to be dealt with under this 
Code and must comply with the requirements of the Code.  
(ii) 
While the Commission has a duty to include AML/CFT matters in its 
educational programmes (such as its periodic Meet The Regulator fora, in its 
newsletters, through industry training sessions), entities and professionals have 
everything to gain by engaging in a similar exercise on a periodic basis; it certainly 
is an obligation under the requirement for staff training.”  
  
 
Section 9 amended 
10. Section 9 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(1) As part of its inspection of an entity or professional that it regulates, the 
Commission is expected to review the anti-money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing policies, processes, procedures and control systems of 
the entity or professional in order to make an objective assessment of 
(a) 
the risk profile of the entity or professional; 
(b) 
the adequacy or otherwise of the entity’s or professional’s 
mitigation measures; 
(c) 
the entity’s or professional’s compliance with the requirements of 
the Act, Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 
2020, Counter-Terrorism Act, No. 33 of 2021, Proliferation 
Financing (Prohibition) Act, No. 20 of 2021, this Code and any other 
code, guideline, practice direction or directive that the Commission 
issues, including any other enactment that applies to such an entity 
or professional.”;  
 
14 
 
(b) by deleting subsection (2), and substituting the following subsection  
 “(2) In relation to an entity or a professional that is not regulated by the 
Commission but to which, or to whom, this Code applies, the Agency shall perform 
in relation to such an entity or a professional the duty imposed under subsection 
(1), and in such a case the reference to “Commission” shall be treated as a reference 
to the Agency.”; and 
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following 
opening paragraph 
“After every review of an entity’s or a professional’s anti-money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing policies, processes, procedures and 
control systems, the Commission or the Agency, as the case may be”.  
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 9 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
 
(a) 
by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting the following paragraph  
“(i) 
As part of its prudential regulation process, the Commission conducts both 
on-site and off-site inspections of entities or professionals that it regulates. 
Inspectors are, during the course of their inspections, expected (amongst other 
things) to identity weaknesses in the entity’s or professional’s anti-money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing policies, processes, 
procedures and control systems through an analysis of the entity’s or professional’s 
internal controls and management systems and other available information within 
or in respect of the entity or professional. This section requires the extension of 
such an inspection to every entity and professional caught by this Code. The 
Commission will review a regulated entity’s or professional’s risk assessments as 
part of its periodic inspections and the other entities and professionals caught by 
this Code will be similarly inspected by the Agency.”;  
 
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by inserting after the words, “Inspectors are encouraged to use 
whatever knowledge they have of the risks associated with any products, services, 
customers”, the words “, delivery channels”; and  
 
(c) 
in the first bulleted point of paragraph (iv), by deleting the word “minimum”.   
 
 
Section 10 amended 
11. Section 10 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsections (1) and (2) by 
deleting the words, “and terrorist financing” wherever they appear and substituting the words, “, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing”.   
 
The Explanation to section 10 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (ii), by deleting the words, “including what obtains elsewhere,” and 
substituting the words, “including what information it obtains elsewhere”;  
 
15 
 
(b) 
in paragraph (iii), by deleting the last sentence and substituting the following 
sentence  
“Training should also provide a guideline as to how to properly embark on such a 
review process with the full cooperation of the entity or professional being 
inspected.” 
 
 
Section 11 amended  
12. Section 11 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(1) An entity or a professional shall establish and maintain a written and 
effective system of internal controls, approved by senior management in the case 
of the entity, which provides appropriate policies, processes and procedures for 
forestalling and preventing money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing, having regard to the money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing risks and size of the entity’s or professional’s business.”; 
(b) by deleting subsection (2) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(2) The written system of internal controls established pursuant to subsection 
(1) shall be framed in a way that would enable the entity or professional to  
(a) 
effectively identify, assess and understand the money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing risks to which the 
entity’s or professional’s business is subject;  
(b) 
manage and mitigate any money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing risks identified by the entity or professional, 
a national risk assessment and any risk assessment conducted by a 
competent authority, law enforcement agency or any other authority 
with responsibility relating to money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing; and  
(c) 
apply enhanced measures to manage and mitigate higher risks that 
have been identified by the entity or professional, a national risk 
assessment and any risk assessment conducted by a competent 
authority, law enforcement agency or any other authority with 
responsibility relating to money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing.”;  
(c) in subsection (3) 
(i)  in paragraph (a), by deleting the words “such as its or his or her products, 
services customers and geographic locations” and substituting the words, “such 
as its or his or her products and services, transactions, customers, geographic 
locations, and delivery channels”;  
(ii) in paragraph (f), by deleting the words “advice or guidance issued” and 
substituting the words “direction given”;  
 
16 
 
 (iii) in paragraph (l), by deleting the words “reportable transactions” and substituting 
the words “suspicious transactions or activities”;  
(iv) in paragraph (q), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing, 
or proliferation financing”;  
 (v) in paragraph (u), by deleting the word “and” at the end of the paragraph;  
(vi)by inserting after paragraph (u), the following new paragraphs 
“(ua) establishing policies and procedures to ensure compliance with sanctions 
obligations;  
(ub) implementing systems and procedures for sanctions screening, monitoring 
and reporting; and”; and  
(vii)  in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (h), (i), (m), and (n) by deleting the words “money 
laundering and terrorist financing” and substituting the words “money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”;  
(c) by deleting subsection (3A) and substituting the following subsection 
“(3A) Every entity and professional shall, in relation to internal controls 
established under this section and other provisions of the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations, Revised Edition 2020 and this Code 
(a) 
establish mechanisms to monitor the implementation of those 
internal controls;   
(b) 
establish and maintain an independent audit function that is 
adequately resourced to test compliance, including sample testing, 
with its or his or her written system of internal controls and produce 
an independent audit report of any compliance testing; and  
(c) 
implement enhanced controls where higher risks are identified.”; 
and  
(d) deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(4) An entity or a professional that fails to comply with the requirements of 
this section commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against pursuant to 
section 27 (4) of the Act.”. 
 
 
The Explanation to section 11 is deleted and substituted with the following  
 
“(i) 
This Code adopts a risk-based approach which is considered the 
most effective way of managing the risks that are associated with money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing. It must be 
viewed as supplementing the AMLR, DTOA, PCCA, FSCA, FIAA, PFPA 
and CTA in so far as money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing are concerned. The risk-based approach essentially 
enables an entity and a professional to balance the risks associated with 
their business, including customers, products, services, transactions, 
 
17 
 
delivery channels and geographic connections to the established measures 
to contain and properly deal with those risks. It provides an element of 
flexibility that enables an entity or a professional to devise and apply its or 
his or her own systems of internal controls and management to deal with 
specific cases and circumstances to forestall and prevent acts of money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing in relation to the 
entity or professional. It is considered to be a more effective approach to 
dealing with money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing in that it allows the entity or professional to concentrate 
resources proportionately to the more vulnerable areas of operations to 
ensure an effective system of controls. In a nutshell, the risk-based 
approach encompasses a recognition of the existence of the risks, an 
undertaking of the assessment of the risks and developing strategies to 
effectively manage and mitigate the risks identified.  
 
(ii) 
An entity’s or a professional’s ability to effectively deal with money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing activities will 
depend immensely on the measures established and implemented to ensure 
appropriate internal controls. The entity or professional needs to develop 
appropriate compliance measures that properly enable the assessment of 
its or his or her business’ risks by undertaking AML/CFT risk assessments, 
if it or he or she is to properly and effectively build a solid regime of internal 
controls.  
 
(iii) 
The nature, form and extent of AML/CFT compliance controls will 
invariably depend on several factors, considering the status and 
circumstances of the entity or professional in undertaking the assessment of 
the risks of its or his or her business. Some of those factors may be outlined 
as follows  
 the nature, scale and complexity of the entity’s or professional’s 
business operations; 
 the diversity of the entity’s or professional’s operations, including 
its or his  or her geographical diversity; 
 the profile of the entity’s or professional’s customers, products, 
services and activities; 
 the distribution channels utilised by the entity or professional; 
 the size and volume of the transactions engaged in by the entity or 
professional; 
 the degree of risk associated with each area of the operations of the 
entity or professional;  
 the extent to which the entity or professional is dealing directly with 
its or his or her customers or is dealing through intermediaries, 
third parties, correspondents or other non-face to face channels; 
and 
 
18 
 
 the measure of regulatory compliance which has effect on AML/CFT 
compliance. 
(iv)  
It is important therefore, in developing a system of internal controls, 
for an entity or a professional to adopt a holistic approach that takes the 
above factors into account. The factors operate as guidelines and 
adherence thereto will assist an entity or a professional in properly and 
effectively developing and establishing a strong AML/CFT regime that 
keeps the entity’s or professional’s name intact and insulates it or him or 
her against unwarranted criminal activity. 
(v) 
The internal controls of an entity or professional can only be 
effective at mitigating money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation 
financing 
risks 
where 
controls 
are 
implemented 
appropriately.  In that regard, it is important for every entity and 
professional to have mechanisms in place to monitor and audit the 
implementation of such controls.  The requirement for monitoring the 
implementation of internal controls requires entities and professionals to 
ensure that employees are complying with relevant measures on an ongoing 
basis.  This may include requirements for approvals of certain portions of 
activities and transactions, reviewing staff completed checklists and risk 
assessments, incremental reporting and other quality control reviews.  
Where weaknesses in compliance with requirements or effective mitigation 
of risks are identified via these ongoing mechanisms, entities and 
professionals must seek to implement means to ensure compliance or 
enhance relevant controls that enhance the entity’s or professional’s 
AML/CFT regime, as applicable.  
(vi)The requirement to establish and maintain an independent audit function 
creates an obligation on an entity and a professional to essentially ensure the 
establishment of appropriate and effective mechanisms which allow for a periodic 
evaluation of the implementation by the entity or professional of the provisions of 
the AMLR and this Code as well as the internal control systems developed by the 
entity or professional. This obligation must be implemented by a person or persons 
that function independently and who have the ability to make objective assessments 
in a transparent and fair manner. The audit function may form a separate and 
independent unit of the entity (such as its compliance portfolio) or the 
professional’s undertaking, or the function may be outsourced. Whatever 
arrangement the entity chooses, it or he or she must provide adequate financial and 
human resources as would be commensurate with the size and volume of business 
of the entity or professional and adopt measures that guarantee the independent 
functioning of the arrangement. It should be noted that ultimately the objective is 
to ensure a proper and adequate testing of the entity’s level of compliance with its 
AML/CFT obligations under the AMLR, this Code and other applicable laws and 
policies. It is imperative that the results of any testing of compliance obligations 
under this section are embodied in a compliance audit report to be maintained by 
the entity or professional and made available to the Agency or Commission in an 
inspection or whenever requested. In addition, the entity or professional must 
 
19 
 
provide an indication in writing as regards the steps taken, where applicable, to 
comply with any shortcomings identified in a compliance audit.”. 
 
Section 11A revoked 
13. Section 11A of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.   
Section 12 revoked and substituted 
14. Section 12 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked and substituted by the following 
section 
“Duty to carry out risk assessment 
12. (1) An entity and a professional, in addition to establishing a written system 
of internal controls, shall carry out 
(a) 
an institutional money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing risk assessment of its overall business, in 
consideration of relevant risk factors, including its or his or her 
customers, products, services or transactions, delivery channels and 
countries to which it or he or she is exposed; and  
(b)  money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing 
risk assessment in relation to each applicant for business or 
customer, including any beneficial owners  
in order  
 
(i)  to determine the existence of any risks; 
 
(ii) to determine how best to manage and mitigate any identified 
risks;  
 (iii) to develop, establish and maintain appropriate anti-money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing 
systems and controls to effectively respond to the identified 
risks; and 
(iv)  to ensure that at all times there is full compliance with the 
requirements of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 
Revied Edition 2020 and other enactments, policies, codes, 
practice directions, guidance and directives in place in relation 
to anti-money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing activities. 
 
(2) In relation to risk assessments undertaken pursuant to subsection (1), 
every entity and professional shall 
(a) 
document and maintain records of the risk assessments conducted;  
(b) 
consider all relevant risk factors before making a determination of 
the level of customer risk or institutional risk;  
 
20 
 
(c) 
apply the appropriate risk mitigation measures and controls based 
on the level of risk identified in risk assessments;  
(d) 
regularly review and update risk assessments on an ongoing basis;  
(e) 
update risk assessments where there are any changes in relevant risk 
factors; and  
(f) 
have appropriate mechanisms in place to provide risk assessment 
information to the Commission or the Agency, on request.   
 
(3) An entity or a professional shall, prior to the launch or use of new 
products, business practices, delivery mechanisms and technological developments 
(a) 
identify and assess the money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing risks that may arise in relation to the 
development of new products and new business practices, including 
new delivery channels and systems, and the use of new or 
developing technologies for new and pre-existing products or 
services; and  
(b) 
take appropriate measures to manage and mitigate identified risks.  
 
(4) In relation to any risk assessment conducted under subsection (3), an 
entity or a professional shall 
(a) 
document and maintain records of the risk assessment conducted; 
and 
(b) 
have appropriate mechanisms in place to provide risk assessment 
information to the Commission or the Agency as requested.”   
 
The following explanation is inserted immediately after section 12 
 
“[Explanation 
(i) 
The internal controls required under section 11, contemplate the 
application of a risk-based approach (RBA) in forestalling and preventing money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing via the business of an 
entity or professional.  Consequently, it is imperative for entities and professionals 
to conduct ML/TF risk assessments to understand the ML/TF risk to which they are 
exposed and prioritise and deploy resources in an efficient manner; placing a 
higher emphasis on areas that pose the most significant ML/TF risks.  Pursuant to 
section 12, entities and professionals must conduct two types of risk assessments: 
(i) institutional risk assessments, and (ii) customer risk assessments.  These risk 
assessments must be documented to support the allocation of compliance resources 
and application of appropriate mitigation measures, and to be able to 
appropriately supply risk assessment information to the Agency or Commission.    
 
Institutional Risk Assessment 
(ii) 
Entities and professionals are required to assess the risk inherent in their 
business, taking into consideration relevant factors, i.e. their customers, countries 
 
21 
 
or geographical areas to which they are exposed, the products, services or 
transactions they offer and the delivery channels used to access customers.  A 
business risk assessment should assist an entity or a professional to holistically 
understand the ML/TF risks to which it or he or she is exposed and identify the 
areas that should be proritised to combat ML/TF.  An important part of the risk 
assessment is to identify the level of risks posed by each relevant factor and develop 
a risk rating.  The risk rating may differ from person to person, for example [Low, 
Medium, High] or [Low, Medium Low, Medium, Medium High, High], however, 
the entity or professional must be able to identify the areas that pose higher risks 
and apply enhanced measures accordingly.  
 
(iii) 
In undertaking an assessment of its business risk, an entity and a 
professional should consider the following in relation to each relevant risk factor:  
 
(A) 
Customer risk:  
This requires an overall assessment of the risks posed by customers 
and requires an entity or a professional to consider the risk profiles 
of its customer base and determine the extent to which the entity’s 
or professional’s customer base consists of higher risk customers.  
This overall assessment is based on the individual customer risk 
assessments that must be conducted in accordance with section 
12(1)(b) of this Code.  Paragraphs (iv) to (vi) below and the 
Explanation to section 19 outline considerations that should be 
made in conducting customer risk assessments.  
 
(B) 
Country risk:  
This examines the extent to which an entity or professional’s 
business is exposed to ML/TF risks based on the countries to which 
it interacts, whether directly or via customers.  The aim is to 
understand the level of interaction an entity or professional has with 
countries that pose a higher risk of ML/TF.  An entity or professional 
is considered to interact with a country, where  
 it operates or engages in business, in, from within or with a 
country, including the Virgin Islands;  
 it has customers (including beneficial owners) that are based, 
operate, or have personal or business links in the country;  
 its customers receive funds from or transmit funds to the 
country; and 
 its customers’ funds were generated for use in the business 
relationship or one-off transaction in the country. 
 
In assessing the ML/TF risks of the countries to which it is exposed, 
an entity and a professional should give due consideration to  
 
22 
 
 the effectiveness of the country’s regime as identified by credible 
sources, such as the FATF, CFATF, IMF, GIFCS, etc.;  
 whether the country is either considered or identified as a high 
risk country (including a country identified as having higher risk 
by the FATF or CFATF);  
 whether the country is subject to sanctions, embargos or similar 
measures issued (e.g., sanctions imposed by the UNSC or the 
UK);  
 whether the country or geographic area has been identified by 
reliable and credible sources (such as the FATF, CFATF, IMF, 
GIFCS, etc.) as providing funding or support for terrorist 
activities, or that have designated terrorist organisations 
operating within the country;  
 whether the country or geographic area has been identified by 
reliable and credible sources (such as the FATF, CFATF, IMF, 
GIFCS, etc.) as having high levels of corruption; and 
 the level of criminal conduct related to ML/TF within the 
country. 
(C) 
Products, Services and Transactions Risk  
This is an assessment of the extent to which the products, services 
and/or transactions offered can be exploited for ML/TF purposes.  
Entities and professionals should consider 
 the nature, scale and diversity of its business’ products and 
services;  
 the complexity of each of the products and services offered;  
 whether products and services include new technologies; 
 the volume and size of its transactions (as it relates to each type 
of transaction available);  
 whether the characteristics of products, services and 
transactions facilitate anonymity of customers, layers of opacity, 
or can readily transcend international borders (this latter 
category would include online banking facilities, stored value 
cards, international wire transfers, private investment 
companies and trusts); 
 the extent to which a product, service or transaction may be 
susceptible to an unknown third party to conduct business via 
another person;  
 the extent to which certain transactions involve multiple persons 
and jurisdictions;  
 
23 
 
 the extent to which third party payments can be accepted; and  
 whether transactions are more cash-based. 
(D) 
Delivery Channels Risk  
This relates to the manner in which products and services are 
offered to a customer and an assessment of the extent that these 
mediums can be exploited by customers or other third parties for 
ML/TF purposes.  The assessment should consider the extent to 
which the entity or professional  
 receives customers on a face-to-face basis;  
 receives customers on a non-face to face basis, for example:  
o via telephone or online interaction;  
o via an agent or intermediary;  
o via introduction from a third party; or  
o via digital or electronic means.  
 
For assessing the risks associated with non-face to face business, 
the entity or professional should consider 
 Where establishing relationships over telephone or email 
interaction, an entity or a professional 
o the possibility that an applicant for business or customer 
may be able to impersonate another person; and 
o the extent to which an applicant for business or customer 
may provide falsified documentation in support of his or her 
application;  
 
 Where using agents, intermediaries or introductions from third 
parties  
o the country in which the agents, intermediaries or third 
parties are incorporated or operate and the level of ML/TF 
risks posed by that country;   
o whether the agents, intermediaries or third parties are 
subject to some form of AML/CFT oversight;  
o whether a third party making introductions maintains 
relevant 
CDD 
information 
and 
documentation 
in 
accordance with the terms of the third party agreements and 
as required pursuant to sections 31 to 31B of this Code ; and  
o whether agents or intermediaries are monitored to ensure 
adequate CDD measures are being undertaken when 
attracting clients; and  
 
24 
 
 In the case of use of digital or electronic means for the 
establishment of a business relationship or conduct of 
transactions   
o the extent to which the use of digital or electronic means 
exposes the entity or professional to cyber-attacks and 
security breaches and the consequent possibility of stolen 
data and identity fraud;  
o whether the entity or professional has measures in place to 
adequately and appropriately protect itself or him or her 
from cyberattacks and security breaches posed by use of the 
digital or electronic means; and 
o whether there are unknown vulnerabilities due to the novelty 
of the digital or electronic means being utilised.   
(E) 
Other Risk Factors that an entity or a professional should consider 
in determining the ML/TF risks posed to its or his or her business 
are  
 the nature, scale and quality of available ML/TF risk  
management resources, including appropriately qualified  
staff with access to ongoing AML/CFT training and  
development;  
 the level of AML/CFT breaches identified on an ongoing basis;  
 the results of any internal compliance assessments or internal 
audits; and 
 any regulatory assessments and findings, including onsite 
inspections and desk-based reviews. 
In addition, where applicable, an entity or professional should also 
consider the ML/TF risks emanating from other third-parties with 
which it engages; for instance service providers, product suppliers, 
affiliates, contractors, consultants and advisors, etc.     
(iv) 
Entities and professionals must put systems and controls in place to ensure 
that business risk assessments are kept up to date.  This may be achieved, for 
example, by  
 setting a timeline on which the next risk assessment update is to take 
place, to ensure any changes in risks are captured;  
 ensuring that emerging risks, increase in existing risks, and changes in 
threats and vulnerabilities as identified by credible sources are 
accounted for within a set timeline; and 
 carefully recording issues throughout the year that could have a bearing 
on risk assessments, such as:  
o internal suspicious transactions;  
 
25 
 
o compliance failures;  
o intelligence from front office staff; or  
o findings from internal audit function.   
Notwithstanding the above, an entity or a professional’s institutional risk 
assessment should be updated and reviewed at least once a year.   
 
Customer Risk assessment 
(v) 
A significant portion of an entity’s or a professional’s ability to manage and 
mitigate its or his or her ML/TF risks is through the management of its or his or 
her relationships and interactions with customers.  As such it is vital for entities 
and professionals to assess the ML/TF risks associated with each applicant for 
business or customer to determine the level of controls and mitigation measures 
that must be implemented for each customer.  The assessment conducted at the 
initial stage of the CDD process would determine the extent of CDD measures to 
be applied. This means that the amount and type of information obtained, and the 
extent to which this information is verified, should be increased where the ML/TF 
risks associated with the applicant for business or customer are higher. CDD may 
also be simplified, but not completely excluded, where the associated ML/TF risks 
are lower, as may be allowed in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-money 
Laundering Regulations and this Code.  
 
(vi) 
Based on a holistic view of the information obtained in relation to each 
customer, an entity’s or a professional’s customer risk rating must determine the 
level and type of ongoing monitoring (including ongoing CDD and transaction 
monitoring) applied to a customer.  The risk assessment would also support the 
entity’s or professional’s decision on whether to enter into, continue or terminate, 
a business relationship; or complete or reject a transaction.  As a customer’s risk 
profile may change over time, entities and professionals should review and update 
the risk assessment of a customer on an ongoing basis, more frequently for higher 
risk customers (at least once a year for higher risk customers).  
 
(vii) 
Entities and professionals should adopt a risk-based approach in the design 
and implementation of their customer risk assessment framework. The complexity 
of the framework should be commensurate with the nature and size of the entity’s 
or professional’s business and based on the results of the ML/TF risk assessment 
of its or his or her business. The customer risk assessment framework should 
include risk factors such as; risks associated with the customer’s business or 
activity, risks associated with the customer’s reputation, the customer’s geographic 
exposure and delivery channel risk factors. These are primarily based on 
information collected during the CDD process.  The customer risk assessment 
process is expounded upon in the Explanation to section 19 of this Code.  
 
New Products, Practices, Delivery Mechanisms and Technological Developments 
(viii) 
Entities and professionals offer new products to provide customers with a 
greater variety of options and create new opportunities and financial solutions.  
 
26 
 
Similarly, entities and professionals may introduce new delivery channels, enhance 
existing products using technological developments and implement changes in 
business practices to enhance accessibility, convenience and efficiency in providing 
products and services to their customers, facilitate ease of doing business, and 
reduce the occurrence of human error.  Some of these can include, for example:  
 Offering transactions via the internet or digital means;  
 Mobile payments;  
 Digital or electronic storage; 
 Electronic verification of documentation; 
 Electronic ongoing monitoring mechanisms; 
 Digital or electronic onboarding mechanisms; and 
 Facilitation of virtual assets transactions. 
 
(ix) 
Notwithstanding the benefits of introducing new products, technology and 
business practices, they may present new vulnerabilities in facilitating ML/TF.  
Subsection (3) therefore obligates an entity or a professional to identify the ML/TF 
risks associated with new products, new technologies and new business practices, 
prior to introducing and implementing them, and have mechanisms in place to 
manage and mitigate the ML/TF risks identified.   
(x) 
In assessing the ML/TF risks associated in these particular circumstances, 
an entity or a professional should consider, amongst other factors, whether a new 
product, technology or practice 
 makes its or his or her business more vulnerable to theft, cybercrime, 
data and security breaches and other fraudulent activities;  
 inhibits on the entity’s or professional’s ability to monitor customer 
transactions and activities;  
 creates opportunities for establishing business relationships in a way 
that circumvents appropriate identification procedures as required 
under this Code;  
 can be appropriately understood by employees so as not to create 
unintended facilitation of ML/TF and other nefarious activities and 
breaches of legislation;  
 may facilitate the conduct of transactions with anonymity; or 
 may facilitate the operation of business in breach of AML/CFT or any 
other relevant legislation. 
 
(xi) 
Entities and professionals should also review other relevant types of 
information to understand the types of risks posed by new products and services, 
business practices, delivery channels and technological developments, including 
 
27 
 
information on how they may be involved in existing and emerging ML/TF schemes 
and exploited for ML/TF purposes.  Such information can be sourced from, for 
example, risks assessment and/or typology reports issued by any competent 
authority with responsibility for AML/CFT matters, both locally and 
internationally, warnings issued by local, regional or international regulatory 
authorities and law enforcement agencies and reports issued by international 
standard setting bodies such as the FATF, CFATF, IMF, Basel Committee, GIFCS, 
IOSCO and IAIS.  
(xii) 
Once relevant risks have been identified, an entity or a professional must 
ensure, prior to implementing the new products, services, business practices or 
delivery channels, that it or he or she has appropriate measures to mitigate against 
the ML/TF risks identified, when they are implemented. This should include 
ensuring that relevant policies and procedures are updated to account for any new 
potential risks to the business of the entity or professional.   
 
(xiii) Risk assessments of new products, services, business practices, 
technological developments and delivery channels should feed into the institutional 
risk assessment as required under subsection (1) and kept-up-to date as required.  
 
Sources of Information 
(xiv) 
There are a wide variety of sources that an entity or a professional can 
utilise in obtaining information to form the basis of its or his or her risk 
assessments, in addition to information obtained during the customer due diligence 
process.  These may include 
 any risk assessments on ML/TF (including sectoral assessments) 
undertaken for the Virgin Islands by any authority with responsibilities 
in relation to the jurisdiction’s AML/CFT regime; 
 guidance, circulars and other communication from the Agency, the 
Commission or any other authority with powers relating to ML/TF; 
 reports issued by the Agency and law enforcement agencies;  
 National Risk Assessments or other similar types of assessment of other 
jurisdictions in which the entity or professional conducts business or its 
or his or her customers are located or conducts business;  
 guidance issued by FATF, IMF or any other international standard 
setting body;  
 assessment reports of compliance with international standards issued 
by international standard setting bodies such as FATF, CFATF, IMF, 
Global Forum;  
 public Statements issued by the FATF and CFATF and other FSRBs; 
 UNSC and UK Sanctions listings;  
 
28 
 
 typologies Reports issued by domestic and international competent 
authorities, financial intelligence units or law enforcement agencies, or 
international standard setting bodies;  
 information from industry associations; and 
 the entity’s or professional’s own knowledge of its or his or her 
industry.]” 
 
Section 13 amended 
15. Section 13 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing”;  
(b)  in subsection (2) 
 (i) by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(b)  ensure compliance with the reporting requirements to the Agency pursuant 
to the provisions of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act, Revised Edition 
2020, Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, Revised Edition 2020, Counter-
Terrorism Act, No. 33 of 2021, Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act, 
No. 20 of 2021 and any other enactment relating to money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing;”;  
(ii) in paragraph (d)(ii), by deleting the words, “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word, “Agency”, and inserting after the words “financing of 
terrorist”, the words “or proliferation”;  
(iii) in paragraph (d)(iii), by deleting the words “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; and 
(iv) in paragraph (g), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing”; and  
(c) by revoking subsection (3).  
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 13 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
(a)  
in paragraph (i) 
(i) 
by deleting the words, “money laundering and terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing”; and 
 
(ii)  
by inserting after the words, “the reporting requirements under the 
DTOA, PCCA”, the words “, PFPA, CTA”;  
 
29 
 
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing”; and 
(c) 
in paragraph (vi), by deleting in the first sentence, the words “Anti-money 
Laundering Reporting Officer” and substituting the words “Money 
Laundering Reporting Officer”.  
 
Section 14 amended  
16. Section 14(2) of the principal Code of Practice is amended by deleting the words, “and 
terrorist financing” in paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) and substituting the words, “, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing”.  
 
 
The Explanation to section 14 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in paragraph 
(i) by deleting the words, “and terrorist financing” and respectively substituting the words, 
“, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”. 
  
 
Section 15 amended 
17. Section 15 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1)(a), by deleting the words, “anti-money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “anti-money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing”; and 
(b) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following subsection   
“(3) Where an employee fails to comply with the requirements of this section, he 
or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27 
(4) of the Act.”. 
 
Section 16 amended 
18. Section 16 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by inserting after the words, “An entity” the words, “or a 
professional”;  
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(b) understands the business of the entity or professional and is well-versed in the 
different types of transactions and products which the entity or professional 
handles and which may give rise to opportunities for money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing.”; and 
(c) in subsection (3) 
(i)  in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the words, “An entity” the words, 
“or a professional”; 
 
30 
 
(ii) in paragraph (c), by deleting the words money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing”; and 
(iii) in paragraph (d), by deleting the words, “notify the Agency or the Commission 
in the case of a regulated entity” and substituting the words, “notify the Agency 
and, in the case of an entity or a professional regulated by the Commission, also 
notify the Commission”.   
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 16 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (i) 
(i) 
in the first sentence, by inserting after the word, “entity’s” 
wherever it appears, the words “or professional’s”; and  
(ii) 
by deleting the second sentence and substituting the following 
sentence 
“He or she effectively functions as the liaison between the entity 
or professional and the Agency with respect to the entity’s or 
professional’s compliance with established AML/CFT laws, 
policies and procedures.”;  
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by deleting the third sentence and substituting the 
following sentence 
“He or she must be given unrestricted access to the entity’s or 
professional’s records and board of directors or equivalent body (such 
as in a partnership), or the professional (where applicable) in order to 
ensure a balanced and objective assessment of suspicious transactions 
or of customers.”;  
(c) 
in paragraph (iii), by inserting after the words, “the reporting 
requirements under the DTOA, PCCA, the 2002 Order”, the words “, 
PFPA, CTA”;  
(d) 
in paragraph (iv), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing”;  
(e) 
by deleting paragraph (v) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(v) 
While a Reporting Officer may be tasked with other 
responsibilities within an entity or in relation to a professional, as part 
of his or her official assignments, it is important that such 
responsibilities are not so onerous as to hinder the Reporting Officer 
from effectively performing his or her statutory functions. It is the duty 
of a Reporting Officer who finds himself or herself in such a situation to 
discuss the matter with the entity’s senior management or the 
professional (where applicable) to seek an acceptable resolution that 
enables an effective performance of his or her reporting functions. Such 
 
31 
 
discussions and the outcome thereof must be documented by the 
Reporting Officer and where there is no acceptable resolution the 
Reporting Officer must immediately inform the Agency or the 
Commission, as the supervisor of the entity or professional. Following 
an assessment by the Agency or the Commission, the entity may be 
required to scale back the Reporting Officer’s other official 
responsibilities or seek to appoint another person as the entity’s or 
professional’s Reporting Officer.” 
(f) 
by deleting paragraph (vi);  
(g) 
by deleting paragraph (vii) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(vii) The AMLR and this Code set out the internal reporting 
obligations of entities and professionals with respect to suspicious 
transactions and the appointment of a Reporting Officer. However, in 
the case of mutual funds and private investment funds, it is recognised 
that there are instances where fund administrators undertake customer 
due diligence, the issuance and administration of subscriptions and 
redemptions on behalf of a fund and would be in a better position to 
identify suspicious transactions and activities.  In such a case, the 
mutual fund or private investment fund may appoint the Reporting 
Officer of the mutual fund’s or private investment fund’s administrator, 
or such other qualified person within the mutual fund’s or private 
investment fund’s administrator, as its own Reporting Officer.”; and  
(h) 
by inserting after paragraph (vii), the following new paragraph 
“(viii) Where a professional does not appoint a person as its Reporting 
Officer, the professional is assumed to perform the role of the Reporting 
Officer in accordance with the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and 
this Code.” 
 
 
Section 17 amended 
19. Section 17 of the principal Code of Practice is amended by revoking subsection (1) and 
substituting the following subsection 
“(1) A Reporting Officer shall promptly make a report to the Agency of every suspicious 
customer or transaction relevant to money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing relating to his or her entity or professional and such report may 
(a) be made in such form as prescribed by the Agency and in compliance with the 
requirements of section 55; and 
(b) be sent electronically by a secure reporting system as required by the Agency.” 
Section 18 amended  
20. Section 18 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
 
32 
 
 (i) by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(a) report a suspicious activity or transaction to a Reporting Officer in a form 
established by the entity or professional as part of its or his or her internal 
control system as the Commission or the Agency may approve in writing, 
provided that the report complies with the requirements of section 55; 
and”; and 
(ii) in paragraph (b), by inserting at the end of the paragraph, before the full-stop, 
the words, “(such as name, date of birth or date of incorporation or formation, 
and address)”;  
(b) in subsection (2), by inserting at the end of the subsection, before the full-stop, the 
words “, regardless of the amount of the transaction”; and 
(c) in subsection (5), in the opening paragraph and in paragraph (a), by deleting the 
words “money laundering or terrorist financing” and substituting the words “money 
laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing”.  
 
The Explanation to section 18 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
 
(a) in paragraph (i), by deleting the third and fourth sentences and substituting the 
following sentences 
“Similar provision is made in respect of terrorist financing under the 2002 
Order and the CTA and in respect of proliferation financing under the PFPA.  
This obligation applies to the entity or professional and any of its or his or her 
employees who possess the information in the circumstance described.”; and  
(b) by deleting paragraph (iii) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(iii) There may be circumstances where an applicant for business or a 
customer may be unwilling to provide or may simply fail to provide adequate 
information requested to verify his or her identity or, in the case of a legal 
person or legal arrangement, the identity of the beneficial owner, or 
information required to undertake CDD.  As a result, the transaction may not 
be concluded or the business relationship may not be established. It is important 
in such a situation for the employee to record the fact of such an activity and 
the details of the person and the transaction concerned. Where the entity or 
professional turns away the applicant for business or customer, it must 
nevertheless record the essential information and transmit that to the Reporting 
Officer who must in turn inform the Agency if in his or her assessment the 
information substantiates a suspicion of money laundering, terrorist financing 
or proliferation financing. It should be noted, however, that it may not be in all 
cases that such a requirement comes into play: the employee dealing with the 
applicant for business must consider the nature, size and volume of the desired 
business relationship, the amount involved and source of the funds, whether or 
not the person is acting for himself or herself or on behalf of somebody else 
(legal or natural), the demeanour of the applicant for business, the risks 
involved and so on. It becomes a question of judgment as to whether the 
 
33 
 
relationship or transaction sought by the applicant for business or customer 
merits suspicion for reporting purposes; but in any case where a suspicion is 
held, it must be reported to the Reporting Officer. Yet there are also situations 
where an applicant for business or a professional may turn away before any 
essential information is recorded of or from him or her; in such a case the 
obligation provided under section 18 (2) will not apply.” 
 
 
 
Section 19 amended 
21. Section 19 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by inserting after the words, “terrorist financing” the words, “, 
proliferation financing”;  
(b) in subsection (3) 
 (i) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words, “applicant for business, or the intended 
customer” and substituting the words, “applicant for business or customer”;  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(c) to use reliable and independent source documents, data, information or 
evidence through such inquiry as is necessary to verify the identity of the 
applicant for business or customer, including the beneficial owner;”; 
(iii) in paragraph (d) 
(aa) by deleting the words, “or the intended customer” and substituting the 
words, “or customer”; and 
(bb)  inserting the word “and” at the end of the paragraph;  
 (iv) by deleting paragraph (e); and 
 (v) by deleting paragraph (f) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(f) to verify that a person who acts or purports to act on behalf of an applicant 
for business or a customer is so authorised and to identify and verify that 
person’s identity.”;  
(c) in subsection (4) 
(i)  in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the word, “entity” the words, “or a 
professional”;  
(ii) in paragraph (b), by inserting after the word “entity”, the word “or professional”; 
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraphs 
“(ba) in the case of an entity or a professional providing a virtual assets service, 
when effecting a one-off transaction involving virtual assets valued at or 
above $1,000 or such lower threshold as the entity or professional may 
establish;  
(bb) in the case of an entity or a professional licensed or registered pursuant to 
the Virgin Islands Gaming and Betting Control Act, No. 14 of 2020, when 
 
34 
 
effecting a one-off transaction involving funds of or above $3,000 or the 
equivalent in any other currency;”; and 
(iv) in paragraph (c), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing”;  
(d) by inserting after subsection (4), the following new subsection 
“(4A) Subject to subsection (4), in the case of a trust or a life insurance policy, 
an entity or a professional shall undertake customer due diligence measures on a 
beneficiary as soon as the beneficiary is identified or designated 
(a) 
for a beneficiary that is identified as a specifically named natural 
person, legal person or legal arrangement, taking the name of the 
person, legal person or legal arrangement; and 
(b) 
for a beneficiary that is designated by characteristics or by class, 
obtaining sufficient information concerning the beneficiary to 
satisfy the entity or professional that it or he or she will be able to 
establish the identity of the beneficiary at the time of the payout.”;  
(e) in subsection (5) 
(i)  by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following opening 
paragraph 
“In circumstances where an applicant for business or a customer is the 
trustee of a trust or a legal person, customer due diligence measures to be 
undertaken by an entity or professional shall also include determining the 
following”  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (c)(i) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(i) where the trust forms part of an ownership structure involving other legal 
persons or legal arrangements, details of the structure, including any 
underlying legal persons or arrangements; and”; and 
 (iii) in paragraph (d), by inserting after the words, “the ownership”, the words “and 
beneficial ownership”;  
(f) in subsection (6) 
(i)  by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the following opening 
paragraph 
 
 
“Adopting the risk-based approach, an entity or a professional may 
determine customers or transactions that it or he or she considers carry low risk 
in terms of the business relationship, and to make such a determination the 
entity or professional may take into account such factors as” 
(ii) in paragraph (b), by deleting the words “and terrorist financing” and substituting 
the words “, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”;  
 (iii) by deleting paragraph (g) and substituting the following paragraph 
 
35 
 
“(g) beneficial owners of pooled accounts held by non-financial businesses and 
professions if they are subject to anti-money laundering, terrorist financing 
or proliferation financing requirements and are subject to effective systems 
for monitoring and supervised for compliance with anti-money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing requirements that are 
consistent with the FATF Recommendations;”;  
 (iv) by deleting paragraph (h);  
 (v) by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(i) in the case of a body corporate that is part of a group, the group is subject 
to and properly and adequately supervised for compliance with anti-money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing requirements 
that are consistent with the FATF Recommendations; and” 
 (vi) by revoking paragraph (j) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(j) the entity or professional considers, in all the circumstances of the 
customer, having regard to the entity’s anti-money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing obligations, pose a lower level of 
risk.”;  
(g) by deleting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection 
“(7) Where pursuant to subsection (6) an entity or a professional makes a 
determination that a customer poses low risk, having regard to the money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing risks identified by a 
Virgin Islands’ national risk assessment, or a risk assessment conducted by a 
competent authority, law enforcement agency or any other authority with 
responsibility relating to money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing in the Virgin Islands, the entity or professional may simplify the customer 
due diligence measures as required under subsections (2), (3) and (4) (b).”;  
(h) by inserting after subsection (7), the following new subsections 
“(8) Subsection (7) shall not apply where 
(a) 
the entity or professional suspects money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing; or  
(b) 
a higher risk scenario applies. 
 (9) Where an entity or a professional suspects that a transaction relates to 
money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing, and believes that 
performing customer due diligence will tip-off the applicant for business or 
customer, the entity or professional shall 
(a) 
not conduct customer due diligence; and  
(b) 
in lieu of conducting customer due diligence, file a suspicious 
transaction report with the Agency in accordance with section 30A 
of the Act and section 18 (1) herein.” 
 
 
36 
 
The Explanation to section 19 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following Explanation 
“[Explanation: 
(i) 
Customer due diligence (CDD) is a very useful mechanism to protect an 
entity or a professional (and by extension the Territory) from the risks associated 
with money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing and other 
financial crimes. CDD also promotes transparency in business transactions and 
thus reduces the possibilities of identity theft. An entity or a professional that 
appropriately develops and applies AML/CFT systems and controls reduces the 
chances of itself, or himself or herself from falling afoul of the law and the 
consequences that flow from criminal proceedings. An effectively applied CDD 
process also helps to build a close relationship between an entity or a professional 
and the regulator and law enforcement generally which helps in keeping criminals 
at bay. 
 
(ii) 
An entity or a professional must establish an appropriate record in respect 
of its or his or her dealings with applicants for business and customers. The aim of 
CDD is to  
 get to know the applicant for business or customer (including any 
beneficial owners) and ensure that they are who they claim to be;  
 understand what to expect from doing business with the applicant for 
business or customer;  
 determine the level of ML/TF risks that an applicant for business or 
customer poses; and 
 implement measures to manage and mitigate the level of ML/TF risk 
posed by the applicant for business or customer.  
 
(iii) 
Customer due diligence must be undertaken initially (i.e. at the point of 
establishing a business relationship or effecting a one-off transaction above the 
required thresholds) and on an ongoing basis.  Requirements for ongoing customer 
due diligence are outlined in section 21 of this Code.  
 
(iv)   
Initial Customer Due diligence consists of the following key steps—  
 
 
(A) 
Identifying the Applicant for Business or Customer  
This entails gathering and recording information about the 
applicant for business or customer to establish who the applicant 
for business or customer is. Information that must be gathered and 
recorded differs based on whether the customer is an individual, a 
legal person, or a legal arrangement.  Where the applicant for 
business or customer is a legal person or legal arrangement, an 
entity or a professional is required to understand the ownership and 
 
37 
 
control structure of the legal person or legal arrangement, by also 
identifying the persons responsible for performing managerial 
functions and directors (where applicable), as well as any beneficial 
owners of the applicant for business or customer. The requirements 
for identifying varying types of applicants for business or customers 
are outlined in sections 23 to 28 of this Code. 
 
 
 
(B) 
Verifying the Applicant for Business or Customer’s Identity 
This entails gathering evidence, via reliable and independent 
information, data and/or documentation, to confirm that a customer 
is who he or she or it is and authenticate that the identification 
information provided is true and accurate.  Verification of an 
applicant for business’ or customer’s identity also reduces the risk 
of impersonation and fraud by persons imitating others.  
 
Sections 23 to 28 outline the requirements relating to verification of 
customer identity and Explanation to those sections provide further 
guidance accordingly.   
 
(C) 
Obtaining details of the purpose or intended nature of the business 
relationship or transaction 
This requires an entity or a professional to establish the reason why 
a customer is seeking to establish a business relationship or conduct 
a one-off transaction.  For example, establishing a personal bank 
account or establishing a business account to facilitate international 
business transactions; or establishing a life insurance policy for the 
benefit of a close relative. 
 
(D) 
Understanding the applicant for business or customer and their 
circumstances 
This requires an entity or a professional to obtain information on 
the applicant for business’ or customer’s business and activities in 
order to create a base profile of the types and levels of activities that 
would be undertaken by that customer throughout the business 
relationship.  This aids the entity or professional in identifying any 
deviations in behaviour (as outlined in section 21 of this Code).  In 
understanding the applicant for business or customer and its or his 
or her circumstances, the following relevant information should be 
considered  
 nature and details of occupation or employment;  
 nature and details of the applicant for business’ or customer’s 
business activities;  
 assets held or managed or to be held or managed (in the case of 
an applicant for business or customer that is a trust or holding 
company);  
 
38 
 
 the anticipated level and nature of activity to be undertaken 
throughout the business relationship;  
 the applicant for business’ or customer’s source of funds, i.e. 
where the funds or assets that will be used for the business 
relationship or transaction were derived (e.g. income, business 
profits, investments, dividends, inheritance, property sale, 
business sale, etc.);  
 the applicant for business’ or customer’s source of wealth, i.e. 
how the customer derived his or her or its wealth, particularly 
in higher risk scenarios (e.g. income, business profits, 
investments, dividends; inheritance, property sale, business 
sale, etc.) and level of wealth (i.e. the total value of a applicant 
for business’ or customer’s wealth);  
 the rationale behind an ownership structure where the applicant 
for business or customer has a complex ownership or control 
structure;  
 the countries with which the applicant for business or customer 
intends to engage or have connections;  
 whether the applicant for business or customer has a criminal 
record or is a known associate of criminals or criminal 
organisations; and 
 whether the applicant for business or customer is a PEP.   
 
Depending on the level or risk posed by the applicant for business 
or customer, in addition to the information that may be gathered 
from posing questions to the applicant, an entity or a professional 
may require independent information or documentation to verify an 
applicant for business’ or customer’s circumstances.  That is to say, 
an entity or a professional may require more in-depth information 
and application of higher levels of scrutiny or verification of 
information for an applicant for business or customer that poses 
higher ML/TF risks. The following are some examples of some 
sources that an entity or professional may utilise—  
 an individual’s pay slips;  
 an employment letter on behalf of a customer; 
 review of a customer’s bank statements;  
 review of a customer’s business website or brochure;  
 a customer’s business plan, estimated financial projections, 
etc.  
 
39 
 
 a customer’s trade licence;  
 copies of contracts, or draft contracts relating to the activities 
to be undertaken;  
 review of business databases or regulatory website (in the case 
of a regulated entity);  
 a legal person’s or a legal arrangement’s financial statements;  
 review of Register of Interests, Income Declarations (in 
relation to PEPs); 
 evidence of source of wealth (e.g. extract of inheritance, bill of 
sale or receipt from sale of property, copies of trust deeds, 
etc);  
 review of internet and news media; and 
 review of third-party search sites and internationally accepted 
screening databases. 
It is important to note that the sources above are examples and may 
not necessarily be applied for all customers.  Determination of 
sources required should be based on customer risks as outlined in 
paragraphs (vi) to (viii) below. 
 
Acting or Purporting to Act on behalf of an Applicant for Business or a Customer 
(v) 
An entity or a professional is required to apply customer due diligence 
measures on a person who is acting or purporting to act on behalf of an applicant 
for business or a customer, as if he or she were the actual applicant for business or 
customer.  This applies whether the applicant for business or customer is an 
individual (e.g. an individual applicant for business or customer with assets under 
a power of attorney), or a legal person or legal arrangement (e.g. a company 
utilising an agent to establish a business relationship, a legal person’s signatory, 
or an agent of a settlor establishing a trust).  Where a person acts or purports to 
act on behalf of an applicant for business or a customer, the entity or professional 
must ensure that it or he or she obtains evidence of the authority of the person 
acting or purporting to act on behalf of the customer and identify and verify the 
identity of that person. Examples of evidence of authority may include, as 
applicable⸻ 
 a copy of the original power of attorney or equivalent instrument;  
 board resolution appointing a signatory to a legal person;  
 authorised signatory letter; and   
 agency services agreement.  
 
In relation to a signatory of a legal person or legal arrangement, an entity or a 
professional should also, in its or his or her CDD process, seek to establish the true 
 
40 
 
nature of the relationship between the signatory and the directors or beneficial 
owners of the legal person or legal arrangement and determine the level of ML/TF 
risk that may exist from this relationship.  This is because there is a money 
laundering tactic whereby persons use signatories that are not of directors, 
managers, partners or employees of the legal persons or legal arrangements, to 
launder proceeds via the legal entity.  As such, the entity or professional should 
verify whether there is any other existing relationship between the signatories and 
the directors or beneficial owners of the legal person or legal arrangement.  The 
level of CDD measures imposed on a signatory will depend on the level of ML/TF 
risk posed by the relationship. 
 
Risk-sensitive Nature of CDD 
(vi) 
CDD should be applied on a risk sensitive basis, such that the level of 
information and verification required for an applicant for business or a customer 
is dependent on the level of ML/TF risk posed by that applicant for business or 
customer, based on the information received in the initial CDD process.  This 
therefore requires an entity or a professional to make an initial risk assessment of, 
and form a risk rating for, each applicant for business or customer.  The initial 
customer risk assessment undertaken should provide an entity or a professional 
with an informed determination of the extent of CDD information to be sought, how 
and the extent to which such information is to be verified.  In addition, a customer 
risk assessment is intended to assist an entity or a professional in determining how 
a particular applicant for business or customer exposes the entity or professional 
to ML/TF risk and enable the entity or professional to apply proportionate 
measures to that applicant for business or customer in order to effectively mitigate 
against the risks the customer poses.  In assessing risks posed by an applicant for 
business or a customer, the following should be taken into account 
(A) 
Applicant’s or Customer’s Business or Activity:  
An entity or a professional must determine whether the nature, size and 
complexity of an applicant’s or a customer’s business or activities 
(including its beneficial owner’s activities) pose higher ML/TF risk or lower 
ML/TF risk.  In making this determination, an entity or a professional 
should consider (as applicable) whether the customer (including its or his 
or her beneficial owner)  
 utilises products, services or transactions that pose a higher ML/TF risk 
(as determined in the entity’s or professional’s institutional risk 
assessment);  
 utilises new products, services or transactions, or existing products, 
services with new technologies or delivery channels that pose higher 
ML/TF risks (as determined in accordance with section 12(3) of this 
Code);  
 
41 
 
 is or will be involved in high frequency, high value transactions or 
complex transactions;  
 has political connections, for example:  
o the customer or its or his or her beneficial owner is a PEP or has 
other relevant links to PEPs;  
o one or more of the customer’s directors, senior management or 
equivalent, are PEPs and if so, these PEPs exercise significant 
control over the customer or beneficial owner;  
 has links to sectors that are commonly associated with higher risks of 
corruption;  
 has links to sectors that are associated with higher ML/ TF risk;  
 has cash intensive businesses, including those that generate significant 
amounts of cash or undertake large cash transactions, money service 
businesses (examples may include money transfer agents, bureaux de 
change and money transfer or remittance facilities), casinos, betting 
and other gambling or game related activities; 
 is a public body or government owned entity from a country with known 
higher levels of corruption;   
 is a recognised stock exchange under the Regulatory Code (Recognised 
Exchanges) Notice that is subject to enforceable disclosure 
requirements;   
 is a legal person with nominee shareholders or has the ability to issue 
bearer shares;  
 is a financial institution or DNFBP acting on its own account from a 
country with an effective AML/CFT regime; or 
 has a background that is consistent with what the entity or professional 
knows about the applicant for business or customer.  For example:  
o its former, current or planned business activity;  
o the turnover of the business;  
o its source of funds; and  
o the customer’s or beneficial owner’s source of wealth. 
 
(B) 
Applicant’s or Customer’s Reputation 
An entity or a professional should consider the applicant’s or customer’s 
reputation, insofar as it relates to financial crime risk.  This may be 
achieved by assessing whether  
 there are adverse media reports or other relevant information sources 
about the applicant for business or customer and/or its beneficial 
owner(s) providing credible allegations against the customer or 
beneficial owner on ML/TF, other financial crimes and/or predicate 
 
42 
 
offences (entities and professionals should determine the credibility of 
allegations based, inter alia, on the quality and independence of the 
source data and the persistence of reporting of these allegations); 
 the applicant for business or customer (or their beneficial owner) has 
been criminally charged and/or convicted for ML/TF, other financial 
crimes and/or predicate offences;    
 the applicant for business or customer, beneficial owner or anyone 
publicly known to closely associate with the applicant or customer has 
currently, or had in the past, been listed on sanctions lists and their 
assets frozen due to administrative or criminal proceedings or 
allegations of terrorism or terrorist financing or other crime-related 
activity;  
 the applicant for business or customer (or their beneficial owner) has 
been the subject of a suspicious transactions report by the entity or 
professional in the past; and  
 the entity or professional has in-house information about the 
applicant’s or customer’s and/or their beneficial owner’s integrity (e.g. 
information obtained over the course of an existing business 
relationship).    
  
(C) 
Applicant’s or Customer’s Geographic Exposure 
The customer risk assessment must consider the countries to which the 
applicant for business or customer has exposure and the extent that the 
customer is exposed to countries that have a higher ML/TF risk (based on 
country risk factors considered in paragraph (iii) (B) in the Explanation to 
section 12).  An applicant for business or a customer is exposed to a country 
if 
o the applicant or customer and/or its beneficial owners are 
resident or established in that country; 
o the applicant or customer conducts business in that country;  
o the applicant or customer receives funds from or transmits 
funds to that country; or 
o the funds used or to be used in the business relationship or one-
off transaction were derived from that country.   
 
(D) 
The Delivery Channels 
An entity or a professional must consider the ML/TF risks posed by the 
delivery channels by which its or his or her products or services are 
distributed to the applicant for business or customer (based on risk factors 
considered in institutional risk assessment on delivery channels as outlined 
in paragraph (iii) (D) in the Explanation to section 12). 
 
 
43 
 
(vii) 
In implementing an appropriate risk-based approach to CDD, an entity or 
a professional must determine the level and extent of information and verification 
of information that must be undertaken for CDD.  This is where the entity or 
professional should consider the evidence of identification required and the sources 
of verification that would apply for a standard relationship or engagement with an 
applicant or a customer.  The RBA must consequently also prescribe the measures 
(additional to CDD) that must be employed for enhanced CDD of higher risk 
applicants or customers.  This may include requiring more than standard 
information and documentation and applying more and/or stricter means of 
verification to understand who the applicant or customer is and the nature of 
activities he or she or it wishes to engage in with the entity or professional. Further 
details on enhanced customer due diligence are outlined in section 20 of this Code. 
The RBA should also outline the reduced simplified CDD measures that would be 
applied for applicants or customers that have been identified as low risk, in 
consideration of the ML/TF risk assessments of the Virgin Islands conducted by 
any person with the relevant authority outlined in subsection (7).  Notwithstanding 
the simplified measures, an entity or a professional must ensure that it or he or she 
has adequately identified and verified the identity of its or his or her applicant or 
customer (including beneficial owners) and has sufficient information documented 
to support the determination of an applicant’s or a customer’s low risk.   
 
(viii) 
It must be remembered that not all customers within a risk category are the 
same, as they may pose different types of risks (e.g. higher risks based on 
geographic exposure, or higher risk based on business activities). Consequently, 
the level and type of CDD, enhanced CDD or simplified CDD applied for an 
applicant for business or a customer should take into account the particular 
circumstances of each customer, on a case-by-case basis.     
 
(ix) 
It should be appreciated that identifying an applicant for business or a 
customer as high risk does not necessarily mean that the applicant for business or 
customer is a money launderer or is involved in terrorist financing, proliferation 
financing or other criminal financial activity. Conversely, identifying an applicant 
for business or customer carrying a lower risk of involvement in money laundering, 
terrorist financing, proliferation financing or other financial crime does not 
necessarily mean that the applicant for business or customer cannot be a money 
launderer or engaged in terrorist financing, proliferation financing or other 
criminal financial activity. In addition, where a customer engages in occasional 
financial transactions below the established financial threshold but in a series that 
appear to be linked, serious consideration should be given to the level of ML/TF 
risks posed by that customer in the series of transactions. It must always be 
remembered that those bent on abusing the legitimate facilities offered by financial 
institutions in particular go to great lengths to identify ‘loopholes’ in the internal 
control systems of the institution. It is therefore advisable that even in cases of 
known identified low risk customers, appropriate CDD measures are applied to 
transactions relating to them. In any case, simplified CDD measures must not be 
applied where a suspicion of money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
 
44 
 
financing or specific higher risk scenario exists.  Where there is a suspicion of 
money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing, this must be 
reported immediately in accordance with the reporting requirements of the DTOA, 
PCCA, PFPA, CTA, AMLR, this Code or any other enactment (as applicable).]” 
 
 
 
Section 20 amended 
22. Section 20 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by deleting the words “prevent money laundering, terrorist 
financing, and other financial crime” and substituting the words “prevent the higher 
risk of money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing and other 
financial crime that have been identified by the entity or professional”;  
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting the words “is determined to be a higher risk applicant 
for business or customer, or transaction” and substituting the words “presents a 
higher risk”;  
(c) in subsection (3)(b), by inserting after the word, “processes” the words “, that 
present a higher risk”;  
(d) in subsection (4) 
 (i) in paragraph (a), by inserting before the words “politically exposed person”, the 
word “foreign”;  
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (a), the following new paragraph 
“(aa) a domestic PEP or an international organisation PEP that presents a higher 
risk;”; 
 (iii) in paragraph (b) by deleting the word, “or” at the end of the paragraph;  
(iv) by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(c) 
a person, business relationship or transaction located in or from a country 
that is either considered or identified as a high-risk country (including a 
country identified as having higher risk by the FATF) or that has 
international sanctions, embargos or other restrictions imposed on it; or”;  
 (v) by inserting after paragraph (c), the following new paragraph 
“(d) any other situation that may present a higher risk of money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing;”; and 
(vi) in the closing paragraph, by inserting after the words, “enhanced due diligence” 
the words, “, proportionate to the risks,”; and  
(e) by inserting after subsection (4), the following new subsections 
“(5) In the case of a trust or life insurance policy, an entity or a professional 
shall consider the beneficiary of the trust or life insurance policy as a relevant risk 
factor in determining whether enhanced customer due diligence measures are 
required.   
 
45 
 
 (6)  Where an entity or a professional determines that a beneficiary of a life 
insurance policy that is a legal person presents a higher risk, the entity or 
professional shall perform enhanced customer due diligence at or before the time 
of pay-out, including reasonable measures to identify and verify the identity of the 
beneficial owner of the beneficiary, where applicable.” 
 
The Explanation to section 20 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following new Explanation: 
 
“[Explanation 
 
(i) 
Enhanced customer due diligence (ECDD) must be viewed as an additional 
precautionary measure designed to assist in truly identifying an applicant for 
business or customer (including a beneficial owner) and verifying the information 
relating to it or him or her and ensuring that the risks that may be associated with 
the customer are minimal or manageable; this is in addition to ensuring that the 
source of funds or wealth is legitimate. These additional measures are relative to 
what an entity or a professional is already required to undertake for CDD.  
However, the type of ECDD applied in high-risk scenarios will differ on a case-by-
case basis, taking into account the higher ML/TF risk, the particular circumstances 
of the customer, and the measures that will enable them to manage and mitigate 
the higher ML/TF risks presented. 
 
(ii) 
Examples of ECDD measures that could be applied for high-risk business 
relationships include  
 obtaining additional information on the applicant for business or 
customer (e.g. volume of assets, information available through public 
databases, internet, etc.);  
 requiring additional information from the applicant for business or 
customer to gain a deeper understanding of the applicant’s or 
customer’s activities;  
 undertaking further research, where considered necessary, in order to 
understand the background of the applicant for business or customer 
and its or his or her business and verify such information;   
 obtaining additional information on the source of funds or source of 
wealth of the applicant for business or customer and verifying this 
information (i.e. obtaining more than standard information on source 
of funds and source of wealth, including requiring evidentiary 
documentation to confirm the customer’s source of funds and wealth, 
and verifying information provided against publicly available 
information sources); 
 obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or continue 
the business relationship with a higher risk applicant for business or 
customer; 
 
46 
 
 requiring additional information before effecting transactions above an 
established threshold amount;  
 requiring senior management sign-off when engaging in transactions 
with a higher risk applicant for business or customer;  
 requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
applicant for business’ or customer’s name with a bank or similar 
financial institution subject to anti-money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing requirements that are consistent 
with the FATF Recommendations and are supervised for compliance 
with such requirements; and  
 conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship (e.g. 
increasing the number and timing of controls applied, obtaining 
information on the reasons for a particular transaction, selecting 
patterns of transactions that need further examination).  
 
 (iii) 
Where an existing customer is subsequently assessed by a customer risk 
assessment review as posing a higher ML/FT risk, the AML/CFT measures must be 
heightened and ECDD measures must be conducted immediately after the customer 
(or beneficial owner) has been determined to be high risk.]”  
 
Section 21 amended 
23. Section 21 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting the heading and substituting the heading “Ongoing customer due 
diligence”;  
(b) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
“(1) An entity or a professional shall conduct ongoing customer due diligence 
on its business relationships by 
(a) 
scrutinising the transactions undertaken by each customer 
throughout the course of that relationship, for purpose of making an 
assessment of consistency between the transactions undertaken by 
the customer and the entity’s or professional’s knowledge of the 
customer, the customer’s business and risk profile, including source 
of funds where necessary;  
(b) 
screening all its or his or her customers to identify the customers that 
may present a higher risk, including customers that 
 (i) have become PEPs;  
(ii) are subject to applicable sanctions; and 
(iii) are associated with criminal activities; and  
(c) 
reviewing and updating customer due diligence information, 
including information on beneficial ownership 
 
47 
 
 (i)  on a risk sensitive basis, prioritising the review and update of 
customers that present a higher risk; and  
 (ii) upon certain trigger events as determined by senior management 
of the entity or professional.”;  
(b) by revoking subsection (2); and 
(c) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following subsection 
“(3) Where the business relationship with a customer terminates, the entity or 
professional shall to the extent possible, in respect of that customer, review and 
update the customer due diligence information, including beneficial ownership 
information, as of the date of the termination of the relationship.”; 
(d) by deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following subsection  
“(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, as it relates to existing 
customers, an entity or a professional shall apply customer due diligence 
requirements on the basis of materiality of risk, and conduct customer due diligence 
at appropriate times, taking into account whether and when customer due diligence 
measures have previously been undertaken and the adequacy of the data obtained.”; 
and 
(e) by revoking subsection (5).  
 
The Explanation to section 21 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following new Explanation: 
 
 
“[Explanation: 
 
Ongoing Monitoring 
(i) 
The initial customer due diligence process should enable an entity or a 
professional to gain an understanding of the applicant for business and their 
circumstances, develop a profile of the applicant for business’ proposed business 
activities, and determine the level of ML/TF risk posed by that applicant.  However, 
an applicant for business’ circumstances, activities, and consequently risk profile, 
may change once he, she or it becomes a customer and commences business 
activities.  As such, it is vital for entities and professionals to monitor customer 
transactions, conduct on-going CDD reviews and update customer information to 
identify when transactions or behaviours fall outside a customer’s profile. Where 
behaviours fall outside of a customer’s profile, an entity or professional must 
determine whether there are changes in the customer’s circumstances and consider 
whether the ML/TF risks of that customer have also changed.  Monitoring of a 
customer’s transactions may increase or decrease the perceived risk that may be 
associated with the customer or transaction. These essentially would relate to  
 
 the purpose of an account or a business relationship: regular account 
openings involving small amounts or simply to facilitate routine consumer 
transactions tend to pose a lower risk compared to account openings 
designed to facilitate large cash transactions from an unknown source; 
 
48 
 
 
 the size and volume of assets to be deposited: an unusual high level of 
assets or large transactions not generally associated with an applicant for 
business or a customer within a designated profile may need to be 
considered as higher risk; similarly, an otherwise high profile applicant for 
business or customer involved in low level assets or low value transactions 
may be treated as lower risk; 
 
 the level of regulation, compliance and supervision: less risk may be 
associated with an applicant for business or a customer that is subject to 
regulation in a jurisdiction with satisfactory AML/CFT compliance regime 
compared to one that is unregulated or only subject to minimal regulation; 
thus publicly traded companies subject to AML/CFT regulation in their 
home jurisdictions pose minimal AML/CFT risks and may therefore not be 
subject to stringent account opening CDD measures or transaction 
monitoring; 
 
 the regularity or duration of the relationship: long standing business 
relations with the same customer may pose less AML/CFT risk and 
therefore may not require a stringent application of the CDD measures; 
 
 the familiarity with the jurisdiction in which the applicant for business or 
customer is located: this entails adequate knowledge of the laws and the 
regulatory oversight which govern the applicant for business or customer, 
considering the entity’s or professional’s own operations within that 
jurisdiction; and 
 
 the use of intermediaries or other structures with no known commercial 
or other rationale or which simply obscure the relationship and create 
unnecessary complexities and lack of transparency: the risks associated 
with such relationships or transactions generally increase the risk profile 
of the applicant for business or customer. 
 
(ii) 
In addition, conducting ongoing CDD on a business relationship, and 
particularly monitoring, is vital for forestalling acts of money laundering, terrorist 
financing, proliferation financing and other activities designed to abuse the 
facilities offered by an entity or a professional.  This is because scrutinising and 
synthesizing of executed or proposed transactions, allows an entity or professional 
to identify transactions and/or activities that are inconsistent with their knowledge 
of a customer, determine whether unusual transactions and/or activities can be 
reasonably explained or point to a suspicion of ML/TF activities.  Therefore, it is 
imperative that an entity or a professional has an effective monitoring system in 
place that  
 flags unusual transactions and/or activities for further examination;    
 allows senior management to examine unusual transactions and/or 
activities promptly; and 
 
49 
 
 takes appropriate action based on the findings of the examination.  
 
(iii) 
Some indications of an unusual transaction or activity that can be flagged 
may include⸻  
 transactions, activities or requests with no apparent legitimate purpose or 
commercial rationale;  
 unnecessarily complex transactions, activities or requests;  
 the size or pattern of transactions is inconsistent with expectations for that 
customer;  
 the customer withholding information about their activities, for example, 
reason for a transaction, source of funds, or CDD documentation;  
 the customer engages in frequent, complex one-off transactions which are 
appropriate for a business relationship, but refuses to establish a business 
relationship;    
 transfers to or from high-risk countries which are inconsistent with what is 
expected from that customer;  
 unnecessary routing of funds through third party accounts;  
 unusual investment transactions with no discernible purpose; and 
 extreme urgency in requests from the customer, particularly where they are 
not concerned by factors such as large transfer fees and early repayment 
fees.  
 
The Agency may issue guidance with indications of unusual transactions and 
activity that may be flagged that should also be taken into consideration.  
  
(iv) 
A flagged transaction does not in itself mean suspicious activity. In 
examining unusual transactions or activities, the entity or professional should 
gather sufficient information, including from the customer or other reliable 
sources, in determining whether the transactions or activities can be explained.  
Where the activities can be explained, this may be an indication that the customer’s 
circumstances and/or purpose for the business relationship has changed and the 
customer’s profile (including ML/TF risk profile) needs updating (see paragraph 
(xi) below).  Where the entity or professional determines that the activities cannot 
be explained, it or he or she should initiate the internal processes for filing a 
suspicious transaction or suspicious activity report.   
 
(v) 
Based on the nature, size and complexity of an entity’s or a professional’s 
business or the ML/TF risks posed, an entity or a professional should consider 
whether 
 transactions will be monitored in real time (i.e. when transactions and/or 
activities are taking place or are about to take place), post event, (i.e. 
 
50 
 
through a retrospective review of transactions) or a combination of both; 
and 
 transactions or activities will be monitored manually or automated.      
 
(vi) 
An entity or a professional may utilise a combination of real time and/or 
post event monitoring, based on the type of product or service, the risk level of the 
customer, etc. In deciding, an entity or a professional should consider which high-
risk factors or combination of high-risk factors will always trigger real-time 
monitoring or which inherently higher risk transactions are to be monitored in real 
time, in particular, where the risk associated with the business relationship is 
already elevated.  
 
(vii) 
Where an entity or a professional engages in a high volume of customers 
and customer transactions, that entity or professional must be able to demonstrate 
that it or he or she has adequate systems in place to monitor the volume of its or 
his or her business. This may require the use of an automated or electronic system, 
as there is increased difficulty in adequately monitoring high volumes of 
transactions and relationships without some level of automated assistance.    
 
(viii) 
Monitoring of customers does not only relate to customers within a business 
relationship, but also customers that conduct one-off transactions.  An entity or a 
professional should have systems in place to determine whether any series of one-
off transactions conducted by a customer over time may indicate some unusual or 
suspicious activity, and gather information in the same way as information would 
be gathered on a customer in a business relationship.  An entity or a professional 
should also consider whether the customer is avoiding establishing a business 
relationship to evade monitoring of its activities.   
 
(ix) 
Not all relationships or transactions are expected to be monitored the same 
way; the degree of monitoring employed will very much depend on the perceived 
risks presented by a customer or a transaction, the products or services being used 
and the location of the customer and the transactions.  This means higher risk 
accounts and customer relationships require enhanced ongoing monitoring. This 
will generally mean more frequent monitoring, requiring more additional 
information and verification to ascertain whether an unusual transaction has a 
reasonable explanation, requiring senior management approval to continue the 
business relationship.   
 
Customer Screening 
(x) 
The ongoing CDD systems of an entity or a professional should be able to 
detect where a customer (including its beneficial owner(s)) has become a PEP, has 
become subject to sanctions; or has been connected to criminal activity or any 
higher risk activity.  In this regard, entities and professionals must have systems in 
place to screen customers on a regular basis to identify them against sanctions 
listing, and press and media releases. Screenings may be manual or automatic, in 
real time or through periodic reviews, based on the nature, size, and complexity of 
 
51 
 
business of the entity or professional and the ML/TF risks posed.  As with 
transaction monitoring, an entity or a professional with a large customer base must 
be able to demonstrate that it or he or she has appropriate systems in place relative 
to the size of its business, which may require some automated assistance for 
screening. Periodic reviews, however, may not be adequate when they relate to 
sanctions listing, as this requires action (e.g. freezing of assets) to be taken in a 
timely manner.  As such, entities and professionals should seek to screen their 
customer-base immediately after the Commission and the Agency issue 
notifications of updated sanctions lists related to UNSCR, the UK and the BVI.  The 
Virgin Islands Financial Sanctions Guidelines provides further details of entities’ 
and professionals’ obligations as they relate to sanctions.  Entities and 
professionals may also wish to have measures in place to monitor where individuals 
and legal persons have been listed on other sanctions lists (such as OFAC and EU).   
 
Updating CDD information 
(xi) 
Any data or other information received and kept under the CDD process 
must be kept up-to-date and relevant through updates of information received via 
ongoing monitoring and a regular review and assessment of current records, 
especially as they relate to higher risk customers.  Procedures and controls for 
reviewing CDD information to ensure they are up-to-date, accurate and 
appropriate should ensure that the entity or professional continues to understand 
the customer and its circumstances throughout the business relationship. It does 
not necessarily mean that relevant persons must automatically replace, for 
example, expired passports, especially where there is sufficient information to 
indicate that the identification of the customer can readily be verified by other 
means.  However, depending on the outcomes from the risk assessments, it may be 
deemed necessary. Generally, updating CDD should entail confirming and 
verifying whether there have been any changes to the elements of CDD, i.e.⸻  
 the customer’s name, or address (including jurisdiction of domicile, 
registered office or address of business in the case of a legal person or legal 
arrangement); 
 the customer’s directorship, shareholding or beneficial ownership;  
 the customer’s business activities or the size of the customer’s business;     
 the customer’s circumstances including occupation, sources of wealth, 
sources of funds; and 
 person(s) acting or purporting to act on behalf of the customer (including 
signatories).   
 
The level of ML/TF risk posed by the customer should drive the level of information 
that needs to be updated and extent of verification that must be undertaken during 
the update process.  It is imperative that any changes in the particulars of any 
customer obtained via the ongoing monitoring process, and regular review of 
records is appropriately documented, builds upon existing customer due diligence 
 
52 
 
and is considered in the update of a customer’s ML/TF risk assessment (required 
pursuant to section 12 (2) of the Code).   
 
(xii) 
An entity or a professional is to determine the manner, form and occasion 
when it or he or she updates the information relative to a business relationship. 
However, certain trigger events, might prompt an entity or a professional to seek 
appropriate information on the customer and its current circumstances.  Examples 
of trigger events could include:  
 a customer applying to open a new account, requesting new products or 
establishing a new relationship;  
 a customer changing its geographic location or requesting services from a 
new geographic location;  
 a material change in ownership and/or management structure;  
 a customer becoming a PEP, the subject of a sanctions list, or associated 
with criminal behaviour; and 
 identification of unusual transactions or activities through transactions 
monitoring.   
 
(xiii) An entity or a professional must also review and update all its customers’ 
CDD (and risk profiles) based on the level of risks posed (i.e. higher risk customers 
are to be reviewed more frequently than other customers).  Higher risk customers’ 
CDD must be reviewed and updated at least once annually.   
 
(xiv) 
Updating CDD may be achieved through the entity’s or professional’s own 
review of independent sources, and/or entail contacting the customer concerned to 
ask relevant questions relating to the relationship and updating changes that would 
have occurred, or to do that during a specific or routine dealing with the customer. 
It helps to inform the customer that such a process is simply a part of the entity’s 
or professional’s statutory duty to maintain up-to-date information with respect to 
all business relationships. 
 
Considerations for Entities providing trust and/or company services (TCSPs) 
(xv) 
TCSPs are responsible for incorporating, registering, administering and/or 
managing companies and partnerships in the Territory and must act as gatekeepers 
in preventing the misuse of these legal persons and legal arrangements.  For this 
reason, TCSPs should have sound ongoing CDD measures and practices in place.  
A TCSP’s ongoing CDD measures must ascertain any changes in the identity of a 
legal person or arrangement (including directorship and beneficial ownership) and 
any changes in the intended use of the legal person.  To determine whether there 
have been any changes of the use of the legal person as envisaged, a TCSP must 
obtain evidence of their customers’ activities and make a determination as to 
whether the activities are consistent with the known business of the customer.  
Examples of evidence include  
 
53 
 
 copies of minutes from meetings of directors and shareholders or partners 
(as applicable);  
 copies of management accounts;  
 copies of financial statements;  
 copies of invoices; 
 copies of property registers; and 
 copies of contracts relating to the companies’ activities.   
 
Where a TCSP has identified changes in the company’s or partnership’s identity or 
its activities, the customer must be re-assessed to consider these changes and/or 
determine whether suspicious activity has occurred, thus triggering the internal 
suspicious activity reporting process.  
 
(xvi) 
Section 21 requires an entity or professional to review and update customer 
due diligence at the time of termination of a business relationship.  Termination of 
a business relationship may arise for varying reasons some of which may not make 
it possible for an entity or a professional to review and update relevant information 
relating to the customer. Yet in some instances the entity or professional may 
already be in possession or be aware of or be able to access relevant information 
relating to the customer. In the case of the former, the entity or professional need 
only record its satisfaction on the customer’s file that it has done what was 
reasonable in the circumstances and had been unable to obtain any information to 
update the customer’s due diligence information. In the latter case, the entity or 
professional must record on the customer’s file the information that it is in 
possession or is aware of or has been able to access. It is for the entity or 
professional to satisfy itself or himself or herself, in either case, that it or he or she 
has taken reasonable measures to comply with the requirements of section 21 (3). 
The relevant record of the customer must be kept and maintained in accordance 
with the record keeping requirements of the AMLR and this Code.  
 
(xvii) While it is required that an entity or a professional must effect the necessary 
review and updating of customer due diligence information for the periods stated 
in section 21 (1) and (2), depending on whether a customer is assessed as low or 
high risk, subsection (4) provides the additional requirement to perform a similar 
review and update in respect of customers with whom an entity or a professional 
had had a business relationship prior to the effective date of this Code (20th 
February, 2008) which continued beyond the effective date. However, this 
requirement applies only in the circumstances where the entity or professional 
forms the view that any of those customers presents some risk or engages in 
transactions that are of a material nature as to present some risk. It is a question 
of judgment on the part of the entity or professional concerned to make that 
assessment and come to a conclusion. In such cases, the entity must not wait for the 
period specified in section 21 (1) or (2) to mature before effecting the required 
review and updating of the customer’s due diligence information. Where an existing 
 
54 
 
customer is not assessed as presenting a high risk or to be engaged in any material 
transaction that has the potential to present a high risk, the entity or professional 
need only comply with the requirements of section 21 (2).  
 
(xviii) The customer, it should be noted, is in effect the applicant for business and 
it is in relation to that applicant that the review and updating of customer due 
diligence information is required. Thus where, for instance, a mutual fund is a 
customer of a registered agent, the registered agent (as the relevant entity) is 
obligated to effect the necessary review and updating of customer due diligence 
information on the fund as the applicant for business. It is therefore essential for 
every entity or professional to determine from the outset of establishing a business 
relationship as to who actually is the applicant for business in the relationship and 
proceed accordingly in ensuring compliance with the requirements of section 21.]” 
 
 
Section 22 amended 
24. Section 22 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
“(1) An entity or a professional shall have, as part of its or his or her internal 
control systems, appropriate risk-based policies, processes and procedures for 
determining whether an applicant for business or a customer, or the beneficial 
owner of an applicant for business or customer, is a politically exposed person.”;  
(b) by inserting after subsection (1), the following new subsections 
“(1A) In relation to an applicant for business or customer, or beneficial owner 
of an applicant for business or customer that is a foreign politically exposed person, 
an entity or a professional, in addition to the customer due diligence measures 
outlined under section 19, shall 
(a) 
take such reasonable measures as are necessary to establish the 
source of funds and source of wealth respecting such person; 
(b)  ensure that senior management approval is sought for establishing 
or maintaining a business relationship with a foreign politically 
exposed person;  
(c) 
ensure a process of enhanced ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship with a foreign politically exposed person;   
(d) 
ensure that there is in place adequate supervisory oversight of the 
entity’s or professional’s business relationship with a foreign 
politically exposed person; and 
(e) 
ensure that the requirements of paragraphs (a) to (d) apply in relation 
to a customer who becomes a foreign politically exposed person 
during the course of an existing business relationship.  
 
 
55 
 
 (1B) Where an entity or a professional determines that the business relationship 
or transaction with a domestic politically exposed person or an international 
organisation politically exposed person presents a higher risk, subsection (1A) shall 
apply as if the domestic politically exposed person were a foreign politically 
exposed person.”; 
(c) by deleting subsection (2) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(2) Where a third party acts for a foreign politically exposed person, a 
domestic politically exposed person or an international organisation politically 
exposed person that presents a higher risk in establishing a business relationship or 
performing a transaction, subsection (1A) shall apply to that third party and the 
entity or professional shall perform the necessary enhanced customer due diligence 
measures, as if the business relationship or transaction is being made directly with 
the politically exposed person.”; 
(d) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(3) An entity or a professional shall have risk-based policies, processes and 
procedures in place to determine when a customer, or the beneficial owner of a 
customer, who ceases to qualify as a politically exposed person by virtue of no 
longer holding the post or relationship that qualified him or her as a politically 
exposed person shall, cease to be treated as a politically exposed person.”;  
(d) by deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(4) In the case of a life insurance policy, an entity or a professional shall take 
reasonable measures, no later than at the time of payout 
(a)  to determine whether the beneficiary and, where applicable, the 
beneficial owner of the beneficiary is a politically exposed person;  
(b)  to inform senior management of the higher risk before payout of the 
policy proceeds; and  
(c)  to conduct enhanced scrutiny on the whole business relationship 
with the policy holder and if necessary, to consider making a 
suspicious activity report.”; 
(e) by inserting after subsection (4), the following new subsection 
“(4A) For the purposes of this section, the reference to 
(a) 
“foreign politically exposed person” means an individual who is or 
has been entrusted with prominent public functions in a jurisdiction 
outside the Virgin Islands, and includes the family members and 
close associates of that individual;  
(b) 
“domestic politically exposed person” means an individual who is 
or has been entrusted with prominent public functions in the Virgin 
Islands, and includes the family members and close associates of 
that individual; and 
 
56 
 
(c) 
“international organisation politically exposed person” means an 
individual that is a member of senior management of an 
international organisation, and includes the family members and 
close associates of that individual.”; and  
(f) in subsection (5), by deleting the words, “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” 
and substituting the words, “the Act”. 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 22 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following new Explanation: 
 
“[Explanation 
(i) 
Individuals that have a high political profile or hold a public office can pose 
higher risk for ML/TF or PF due to the potential to misuse their political powers 
and influence to commit offences related to corruption, bribery, terrorism and 
proliferation financing offences.  Given the particular ML/TF and PF risks, these 
individuals are classified as politically exposed persons (PEPs).  The 
categorisation of PEPs also extends to family members and close associates of 
these individuals.  This is because persons entrusted with these functions may use 
family members and/or close associates to hide misappropriated funds, assets 
gained through abuse of power, bribery or corruption or assets to be used to fund 
terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  The mere fact that an 
individual falls within the PEP bracket does not necessarily mean that the 
individual is connected to a wrongful action. However, an entity or a professional 
must remain aware that PEPs have a greater risk of exposure to bribery and 
corruption, ML/TF and PF, and apply appropriate CDD and ECDD measures to 
identify PEPs, identify any unusual and/or suspicious activity and mitigate against 
the associated ML/TF and PF risks.  
 
Classification of PEPs 
(ii) 
In considering the measures to be applied to PEPs, an entity or a 
professional must identify the category of PEP in which an applicant for business, 
customer, or beneficial owner falls.  There are 3 main types of PEPs:  
 
 Foreign PEPs refer to PEPs that have been entrusted with prominent public 
functions in a country outside of the Virgin Islands.  These generally comprise 
persons who are Heads of State/government, cabinet ministers/secretaries of 
state, judges (including magistrates where they exercise enormous 
jurisdiction), senior political party functionaries and lower political party 
functionaries with an influencing connection in high ranking government 
circles, military leaders and heads of police and national security services, 
senior public officials and heads of public utilities/corporations, members of 
ruling royal families, senior representatives of religious organisations where 
their functions are connected with political, judicial, security or administrative 
responsibilities.  
 
 
57 
 
 Domestic PEPs comprise the same class of persons categorised as foreign 
PEPs; however, these individuals are entrusted with prominent public functions 
in the Virgin Islands.   
 
 International Organisation PEPs relate to individuals that serve as senior 
management, directors and deputy directors, and members of the board (or 
their equivalents) of international organisations.  An international organisation 
refers to an entity formed by political agreements (international treaties) 
between their member states that are recognised by law in their member 
countries.  This also extends to similar regional organisations.  Some examples 
of international organisations include 
o the United Nationals and affiliated international organisations;  
o the International Monetary Fund;  
o the World Bank;  
o the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development;  
o CARICOM; 
o Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States; 
o Pan American Health Organization; 
o European Commission; 
o FATF; and 
o CFATF.   
 
The examples of foreign and domestic PEPs are not exhaustive.  It should be noted 
that the named positions do not include middle-ranking or more junior officials. 
However, when the political exposure of a middle-ranking or junior official is 
comparable to that of similar positions at national level, an entity or a professional 
should consider, on a risk-based approach, whether persons exercising those 
public functions should be considered as PEPs. 
 
(iii) 
As noted in the definition of PEPs, family members and close associates of 
PEPs also qualify as PEPs and the same measures in relation to establishing 
business relationships and engaging in transactions apply to them. Family 
relations generally cover persons in consanguine and affinity relations with PEPs; 
these would include, amongst others:  
 a spouse;  
 a partner considered by national law as equivalent to a spouse;  
 a child;  
 a spouse or partner of a child;  
 a brother or sister (including a half-brother or half-sister);  
 a parent;  
 
58 
 
 a parent-in-law;  
 a grandparent; or  
 a grandchild.   
 
Close associates would comprise  
 personal advisers/consultants to PEPs;  
 close business colleagues and friends likely to benefit from association with, 
PEPs;  
 individuals who have joint beneficial ownership of a legal person or legal 
arrangement with a PEP; and 
 PEP-supported NPOs.  
 
(iv) 
Establishing whether an individual qualifies as a PEP may not be easy; in 
addition to reviewing CDD information and documentation, much is acquired from 
interviews and answers given at the time of a request to establish a business 
relationship or enter into a transaction. Entities or professionals may also wish to 
consult commercially available databases and screening tools and review internet 
and media sources, to aid in determining whether a customer or a beneficial owner, 
is a PEP.   
 
Application of Measures to PEPs 
(v) 
It should be noted that foreign PEPs are considered to pose higher risks for 
money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing, and require the 
application of both CDD and ECDD measures.  However, the determination as to 
whether only CDD or both CDD and ECDD measures are required for a domestic 
and international organisation PEP is based on the level of risk identified at the 
establishment of the relationship or engagement of the transaction. The CDD and 
ECDD measures relative to PEPs do not prohibit business dealings or 
relationships with PEPs. However, because of the serious potential business risks 
that they pose, compliance with the applicable CDD and ECDD measures is 
requisite. 
 
(vi) 
Entities and professionals are required to implement enhanced customer 
due diligence measures (see section 20 of this Code) on all foreign PEPs and apply 
the following specific measures  
 establish source of funds and source of wealth of the foreign PEP (i.e. obtaining 
more than standard information on source of funds and source of wealth, 
including requiring evidentiary documentation to confirm the foreign PEP’s 
source of funds and wealth, verifying information provided against publicly 
available information sources such as asset and income declarations);  
 require senior management approval to establish or continue a business 
relationship with the foreign PEP;  
 
59 
 
 conduct enhanced monitoring of the business relationship (e.g. increasing the 
number and timing of controls (such as CDD and risk assessment reviews) 
applied, obtaining information on the reasons for a particular transaction, 
selecting patterns of transactions that need further examination); and    
 ensure appropriate supervisory oversight where a junior staff member deals 
with an entity or a professional.  
 
(vii) 
As it relates to domestic PEPs and international organisation PEPs, an 
entity or a professional is required to consider the customer or beneficial owner’s 
PEP status as a high-risk factor.  However, unlike foreign PEPs, an entity or a 
professional is only required to apply enhanced measures on a domestic or 
international organisation PEP, where the PEP poses higher ML/TF and PF risk.  
The risk rating of a domestic or international organisation PEP is dependent on 
the overall risk factors of the customer risk assessment conducted. Where the risk 
assessment identifies that a domestic PEP or an international organisation PEP 
poses a higher risk, the entity or professional must apply enhanced measures, as 
identified in paragraph (vi) above. Essentially, a domestic PEP or international 
organisation PEP that poses higher ML/TF and PF risk must be treated as if he or 
she were a foreign PEP.  In addition to the standard customer risk factors assessed, 
in determining whether the business relationship or one-off transaction with a PEP 
should be classified as high risk, an entity or a professional should consider the 
following additional factors specific to PEPs:  
 whether the PEP has business interests that are related to his/her public 
functions; 
 whether the PEP is involved in public procurement processes; 
 whether the PEP is from a country or jurisdiction that represents a higher risk 
of money laundering, corruption, terrorist financing or being subject to 
international sanctions; 
 whether the PEP has executive decision-making responsibilities; 
 whether the PEP has a prominent public function in industries known to be 
exposed to high levels of corruption, such as the oil and gas, mining, 
construction, natural resources, defence, sports, gaming and gambling 
industries; and 
 whether the PEP has a prominent public function that would allow him/her to 
exert a negative impact on the effective implementation of the international 
AML/CFT standards in the Virgin Islands (e.g. the Governor, the Premier, 
Ministers of Government and other political or parliamentary leaders). 
 
Notwithstanding the fact that all foreign PEPs are considered to pose higher 
ML/TF and PF risks, the factors listed above should be considered in relation to 
foreign PEPs to understand the particular ML/TF and PF risks that the foreign 
PEP may pose that may require additional or specific mitigation measures.  
 
 
60 
 
Screening for PEPs 
(viii) 
A new customer may not qualify as a PEP but may so qualify in the future. 
It is therefore important that entities and professionals screen customers on an 
ongoing basis to identify when an existing customer becomes a PEP (see section 
21 of this Code).  Where an entity or a professional identifies an existing customer 
or beneficial owner as a PEP, the entity or professional must undertake risk 
assessment and determine the level of risk the PEP relationship poses.  Where a 
customer or beneficial owner is determined to be a foreign PEP, or a domestic or 
international organisation PEP that poses a higher risk, senior management must 
review and approve the continued business relationship with that customer. 
Enhanced customer due diligence and enhanced monitoring must also be applied 
with respect to this relationship.    
 
Expiration of status as PEP 
(ix) 
A PEP’s influence and prominence may not have diminished after leaving 
the role and he or she may continue to have influence and power, making that 
individual potentially more susceptible to bribery and corruption, and ML/TF and 
PF. As such, an entity or a professional must apply a risk-based approach in 
determining whether a PEP should continue to be treated as a PEP, after ceasing 
to qualify as such.  As part of its risk-based approach in determining whether the 
customer should continue to be treated as a PEP, an entity or a professional should 
consider the following  
 whether the customer may still pose potential risks, such as where there are 
ongoing legal proceedings relating to him or her or where there may be 
lingering issues in relation to his or her family members or close associates or 
where there are pending investigations in relation to him or her, etc.;  
 the level of (informal) influence that the individual could still exercise; 
 the seniority of the position that the individual held as a PEP;  
 the amount of time that had passed since the individual were in the PEP role;  
 whether the individual’s PEP function and current function are linked in any 
way (e.g. formally by the appointment of the PEP’s successor, or informally by 
the fact that the PEP continues to deal with the same substantive matters in an 
advisory capacity);  
 the level of inherent corruption risk in the jurisdiction of the individual’s 
political exposure;  
 the level of transparency about the source of wealth and origin of funds; and  
 whether the individual has links to higher risk industries.  
 
Where an entity or a professional determines, based on its or his or her risk 
assessment of the relationship, that a customer should no longer be treated as a 
PEP, a detailed rationale for changing the customer’s status should be recorded.  
 
61 
 
In addition, any decision to change the classification from a PEP, must be subject 
to senior management review and approval.]” 
 
 
Section 23 amended 
25. Section 23 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the words, “an applicant for business 
or a customer”, the words “including the beneficial owner of the applicant for 
business or customer,”;  
(ii) in paragraph (c), by inserting after the words “in accordance with”, the words, 
“sections 31, 31A and 31B of”; and  
 (iii) in paragraph (d), by inserting after the words “parent company”, the words, “in 
accordance with the requirements and standards of, or requirements or standards 
at least equivalent to, the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 
2020 and this Code”;  
(b) in subsection (2)(c), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing”;  
(c) by inserting after subsection (2B), the following new subsection 
“(2Ba) Notwithstanding subsection (1)(b), in the case of a beneficiary under a life 
insurance policy or trust, an entity or a professional may verify the identity of that 
beneficiary, after the business relationship has been established, if it takes place at 
or before the time of payout or at or before the time the beneficiary exercises a right 
vested under the policy or trust.” 
(d) in subsection (2C)  
(i)  in the opening paragraph, by deleting the words “establishes a business 
relationship pursuant to subsection (2) and it or he or she”;  
(ii) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing”;  
(iii) in paragraph (c), by inserting after the words, “applicant for business”, the words 
“or customer”; and  
(iv) by revoking the closing subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) and substituting the 
following closing subparagraphs 
“(i) 
not open an account, establish a business relationship, or carry out the 
transaction for that applicant for business or customer; or  
(ii) 
terminate any existing business relationship with the customer; and 
 
62 
 
(iii) 
submit, in relation to paragraph (a), a report to the Agency outlining its or 
his or her discovery or suspicion; and  
(iv) 
submit, in relation to paragraph (b) or (c), a report to the Agency if it or 
he or she forms the opinion that the conduct of the applicant for business 
or customer raises concerns regarding money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing.”;  
(e) in subsection (6B) 
by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting it with the following opening 
paragraph,  
“Where, for the purposes of subsection (6A), an entity or a professional 
relies on the electronic or digital data or other data of an organisation or any 
other person to carry out verification, it or he or she shall ensure that the 
organisation or that other person”; and  
(f) in subsection (6D), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing”. 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 23 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (i) 
(i) in the third sentence, by deleting the word “or control”, after the words 
“beneficial ownership”; and  
(ii) by deleting the last sentence and substituting the following sentence 
 “It is also important that in circumstances where there is a change in the 
third party acting on behalf of a customer, this should be noted, verified 
and updated, in accordance with section 21 of this Code.” 
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by deleting the words “as considered feasible” in the first 
sentence;  
(c) 
by deleting paragraph (iiA) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(iiA) It should be noted that the effect of a termination of a business 
relationship as provided in subsection (2C) in circumstances where 
there is a suspicion of money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing on the part of an applicant for business or a 
customer must be carried out in a manner so as not to tip off the 
applicant for business of customer. If an entity or a professional 
forms the opinion that an immediate termination of business 
relationship might tip off the applicant for business or customer, it 
or he or she must liaise with and seek the advice of the Agency and 
act according to the Agency’s direction.”;  
 
(d) 
in paragraph (iii), by deleting the words, “Section 27 outlines the obligation 
for verification of underlying principals of legal persons, which section”;,  
 
63 
 
(e) 
in paragraph (iv), by deleting the word “origin” in the first sentence, and 
substituting the words “risk rating”;  
(f) 
in paragraph (vi), by deleting the word “may” in the second sentence and 
substituting the word “must”;  
 
(g) 
in paragraph (vii), in the first bullet point, by deleting the words, 
“recognised jurisdiction listed in Schedule 2 of this Code, or with an assess 
low risk jurisdiction” and substituting the words, “country that the entity’s 
or professional’s risk assessment has not determined to pose a higher level 
of risk”;  
(h) 
in paragraph (xii) by deleting the words, “money laundering and/or 
terrorist financing”, and substituting the words, “money laundering, 
terrorist financing and/or proliferation financing”; 
(i) 
in paragraph (xiii), by deleting the word “might” and substituting the word 
“must”;  
(j) 
in paragraph (xvi), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist 
financing”, and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing”; and 
(k) 
by deleting paragraphs (xviii), (xix), (xx), (xxi), (xxii) and (xxiii). 
 
 
Section 24 amended 
26. Section 24 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
 (i) in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the words, “verification measures 
where”, the words “the individual”;  
(ii) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words “the individual”;  
 (iii) by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph  
“(b) is the beneficial owner of an applicant for business;”; and 
(iv) by deleting paragraph (c), and substituting the following paragraphs 
“(c) 
is a director, or a person with a similar position responsible for the 
management of an applicant for business; or 
(d) 
is acting on behalf of the applicant for business.”;  
(b) in subsection (2), by inserting after the words, “shall obtain information” the words, 
“and evidence”;  
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words, “makes a determination that from its risk 
assessment an individual or the product or service channels in relation to him or 
her”, and substituting the words, “makes a determination from the customer risk 
assessment conducted in accordance with section 12(1)(b), that an individual”;  
 
64 
 
(d) in subsection (4), by deleting the words, “key staff” and substituting the words, 
“senior management”;  
(e) in subsection (5) 
(i)  in paragraph (b), by deleting the words, “facsimile number, occupation, 
employer’s name” and substituting the words “occupation and employer’s name 
(if applicable)”; and 
(ii) by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(c) 
the full legal name and residential address and, in the case of a member of 
senior management introducing the individual, his or her job title and a 
brief description of the customer’s or member of senior management’s 
knowledge of the individual.” 
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 24 of the principal Code of Practice is amended  
 
 
(a) 
by re-designating paragraph (ii) as paragraph (viii);  
 
 
 
(b) 
by re-designating paragraph (iii) as paragraph (ix);  
 
(c) 
by inserting after paragraph (i), the following paragraphs 
 
 
 
Documentation for Identity Verification 
(ii) 
The process for verifying the identity of a person may take varying 
forms. It is crucial that an entity or a professional not only knows its or his 
or her applicant for business or customer, it or he or she must also be able 
to verify the actual beneficial owner of the applicant for business or 
customer. In order to ensure a greater degree of certainty and provide 
smooth business conduct without undue hindrance, uniformity of approach 
is essential to the extent possible, bearing in mind that exceptions may apply 
in certain instances with respect to applicants or customers that are 
assessed as high risk. In relation to an individual, the following guide 
should be adopted to confirm the identity of an individual 
 where identity is to be verified from documents, this should be based 
on either: 
 
 a government-issued document which incorporates the 
applicant for business’ or customer’s full name and photograph 
and either his or her residential address or his or her date of 
birth; or 
 
 a government, court or local authority-issued document (with or 
without a photograph) which incorporates the applicant for 
business’ or customer’s full name, supported by a second 
document, either government-issued, or issued by a judicial 
authority, a statutory or other public sector body or authority, a 
statutory or regulated utility company, or a Commission-
 
65 
 
regulated entity in the financial services sector, which 
incorporates—  
 the applicant’s or customer’s full name; and  
 either his or her residential address or his or her date of 
birth. 
 
(iii) 
For purposes of the first bullet point under paragraph (ii) above, a 
government-issued document with photograph includes the following   
 a valid passport; 
 a valid photo-card driving licence, whether permanent or 
provisional; 
 a national identity card; 
 a valid work permit card; 
 an immigration status-issued card (for example, a belonger card); 
 an election/voter identity card; 
 a national insurance card; and 
 a valid student identity card. 
 
(iv) 
For purposes of the second bullet point under paragraph (ii) above, 
a government-issued document with or without a photograph includes the 
following   
 instrument of a court appointment (such as appointment as 
liquidator, or grant of a probate); 
 letter of appointment by the Commission as an examiner or a 
qualified person; and 
 current Inland Revenue tax demand letter, or statement. 
 
(v) 
Examples of other documents to support a customer’s identity 
include utility bills or current bank statements or credit/debit card 
statements issued by a bank or other similar financial institution regulated 
by the Commission or another financial institution regulated in a country 
that the entity’s or professional’s risk assessment has not determined to 
pose a higher risk.  If the document is obtained from the internet, it should 
only be relied upon where the entity or professional is satisfied of its 
authenticity. Where a member of staff of the entity or professional has 
visited the applicant or customer at his or her home address, a record of 
this visit may constitute evidence corroborating that the individual lives at 
this address (that is, equivalent to a second document).  
 
 
66 
 
(vi) 
It should be noted that some applicants for business or customers 
may not be able to produce   identification information equal to those 
outlined above. Such cases may include, for example, some low-income 
earners, customers with a legal, mental or physical inability to manage 
their affairs, individuals dependent on the care of others, dependent 
spouses/partners or minors, students (without student identity cards), 
refugees and asylum seekers, migrant workers and prisoners. There may 
be other examples not listed herein and these must be considered in the 
same context as and when they arise or are discovered. The entity or 
professional will therefore need an approach that compensates for the 
difficulties that these classes of individuals may face in providing the 
standard evidence of identity. Nothing should be done that has the effect of 
shutting off an individual from establishing a business relationship or 
conducting a transaction with or through an entity or a professional simply 
on account of an inability brought on by the individual’s status or 
circumstances.  
 
(vii) Notwithstanding what is provided in the above paragraphs, an entity 
or a professional may, where it or he or she assesses an applicant for 
business or a customer as presenting a high risk, require and rely on such 
additional documentation as it or he or she considers appropriate and 
reasonable as further proof of identity.  However, this must not be used as 
an excuse or a pretext for making inappropriate or unreasonable demands 
of an applicant for business or a customer or for negatively profiling an 
applicant or a customer thereby hindering a business relationship or 
transaction with the entity or professional.”; 
 
(d) 
in paragraph (viii), as re-designated, by inserting the heading “Reliance 
on personal introduction”; and  
 
(e) 
in paragraph (ix), as re-designated, by inserting after the words “the 
telephone”, the words, “or via electronic means”.  
 
Section 25 amended  
27. Section 25 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
 (i) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words, “in its own right”;  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (b), and substituting the following paragraphs 
“(b) is a shareholder of an applicant for business, holding 10% or more interest 
or voting rights in the applicant for business;  
(ba) is a director of an applicant for business; or”; and 
(iii) by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following paragraph 
 
67 
 
“(c) 
is a third party acting or purporting to act on behalf of an applicant for 
business.”;  
(b) by deleting subsection (2) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(2) For purposes of the identification and verification of a legal person, an 
entity or a professional shall   
(a) 
obtain information regarding 
 (i) the full name of the legal person and any trading name of the 
legal person; 
 (ii) the official registration or other identification number of the 
legal person; 
(iii) the date and place of incorporation, registration or formation of 
the legal person; 
(iv) the address of the registered office in the country of 
incorporation of the legal person and its mailing address, if 
different; 
(v)  where applicable, the address of the registered agent of the legal 
person to whom correspondence may be sent and the mailing 
address of the registered agent, if different;  
(vi) the legal person’s principal place of business and the type of 
business engaged in;  
(vii) the powers that regulate and bind the legal person, as well as the 
names of the relevant persons having a senior management 
position in the legal person; and 
(viii) the ownership and control structure of the legal person, 
including direct and indirect ownership; and 
(b) 
identify and verify the identity of 
 
 (i) each director of the legal person or any other similar position a 
the legal person responsible for management of the legal person;  
 (ii) each beneficial owner of the legal person; and 
(iii) any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the legal 
person.”;  
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words “from its or his or her risk assessment a 
legal person or the product or service channels in relation to the legal person presents 
a higher level of risk,” and substituting the words, “from the customer risk 
assessment conducted in accordance with section 12 (1) (b), that the legal person 
presents a higher level of risk,”; and 
(d) in subsection (6), by deleting the words, “other than a company, partnership and 
trust,” and substituting the words, “other than a company and partnership,”. 
 
68 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 25 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following Explanation 
 
 
 
"[Explanation 
“(i) 
The reference to a “legal person” refers to a body corporate. To be 
specific for the purposes of this Code, the reference to a “legal person” 
must be taken to cover bodies corporate, including partnerships, 
companies,  foundations, anstalts, Waqf, associations and any incorporated 
or unincorporated clubs, societies, NPOs, churches, institutes, friendly 
societies established pursuant to the Friendly Societies Act (Cap. 268), 
provident societies or cooperative societies established pursuant to the 
Cooperative Societies Act (Cap. 267) and any similar bodies. Thus the 
verification requirements in establishing a business relationship will apply 
to all of these bodies, irrespective of their structure or place of formation.  
 (ii) 
There are different forms of verification that an entity or a 
professional may employ in trying to verify the identity of a legal person 
with whom it or he or she wishes to establish a business relationship. Based 
on the level of risk present, an entity or professional may require a range of 
forms of verification for a particular legal person.  For instance, for a 
higher risk company from a jurisdiction with high instances of fraud, an 
entity or a professional may require documentary evidence from the 
customer of its existence and additionally conduct a company search at a 
company registry or other electronic verification means to further verify 
that the company exists.  Furthermore, an entity or a professional may 
require more than the standard number of documentation to verify the 
higher risk company’s existence.  As for all aspects of customer due 
diligence in general, it is for the entity or professional to establish its or his 
or her standard verification requirements and determine the additional 
verification measures that will be put in place for higher risk legal persons, 
on a case by case basis (based on the type of ML/TF risk posed and 
measures required for mitigation of those risks).  Verification needs may 
also vary based on the type of legal person that is applying for business 
(e.g. an incorporated company would require a Certificate of 
Incorporation, whilst this is not possible for an unincorporated 
organisation).  Where an entity or a professional determines that a legal 
person poses a lower level of ML/TF risk, it or he or she may apply 
simplified due diligence measures, including requiring less than standard 
verification requirements in establishing the relationship.  Where simplified 
due diligence measures are applied, the rationale must be appropriately 
documented and the entity or professional must be able to justify the 
 
69 
 
application of simplified measures to the Commission or Agency, as 
applicable.   
Documentation for Identity Verification (Legal Persons) 
(iii) 
In relation to verification relying on documentation, the types of 
documentation may vary, depending on the type of legal person. Some basic 
examples of documentation that can be used for verification include⸻ 
 Certificate of Incorporation, or certificate of Registration or 
Formation; 
 a copy of constitutional documents (i.e. Memorandum and 
Articles of Association, Partnership Agreement, by-laws, 
charters or similar document); and 
 a copy of a trade licence, registration certificate or regulatory 
licence (where applicable).  
 
In relation to the first bullet point above, the certificate may be differently 
referenced. The important thing is that there is a valid written document 
showing the incorporation, registration or formation of a legal person. 
 
The following are examples of documentation that can be requested as 
additional documents to verify a legal person’s existence (as applicable)⸻  
 Certificate of Good Standing or similar document confirming 
that the legal person is registered in the place of incorporation, 
registration, formation or continuation;   
 copy of audited financial statements within the last year of the 
establishment of the business relationship;  
 copy of a certificate of membership in a professional or trade 
association;  
 copies of previous bank statements or financial reference on the 
legal person; and 
 copies of utility bills in relation to the legal person.     
 
(iv) 
Outside of identifying and verifying that a legal person exists, and 
is who it says it is, an entity or a professional must, where applicable, also 
verify information in relation to the legal person’s directors, partners, 
beneficial owners, and persons acting or purporting to act on behalf of the 
applicant for business or customer.  Relevant documentation an entity or a 
professional should obtain include 
 Register of Directors, Register of Partners or similar 
documents;  
 Register of Shareholders or other similar documents;  
 
70 
 
 ownership structure charts (where applicable);  
 verification documents of each director of the legal person or 
any similar position a legal person responsible for management 
of the legal person;   
 verification documents of each beneficial owner of the legal 
person; and 
 verification documents of any person acting or purporting to act 
on behalf of the legal person (these include persons with powers 
of attorney and signatories of accounts). 
 
(v) 
In verifying a legal person that is a director or shareholder of a 
customer or applicant for business, an entity or professional must verify 
that the legal person exists, as outlined in paragraphs (ii) and (iii) above.  
However, the extent to which an entity or professional should verify the 
identity of the directors and shareholders of that legal person (director or 
shareholder), should be based on the level of risk posed by the customer or 
applicant for business and its beneficial owners, and the director or 
shareholder itself.   
 
Considerations for identification and verification of Segregated Portfolio 
Companies 
(vi) 
As outlined in paragraph (iv), identification and verification of a 
legal person includes identifying and verifying the identities of the 
beneficial owners of the legal person.  In identifying and verifying the 
beneficial owners of a legal person structured as a segregated portfolio 
company, an entity or a professional must consider the individuals that own 
or control 10% or more of the shares or voting rights of the segregated 
portfolio company and any particular segregated portfolio.  This also 
extends to any individual exercising control over the management of the 
segregated portfolio company and any particular segregated portfolio.”   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 26 revoked 
28. Section 26 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.  
 
Section 27 revoked 
29. Section 27 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.  
 
Section 28 amended 
30. Section 28 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in the heading, by deleting the word, “trust” and substituting the words, “legal 
arrangement”; 
(b) by deleting subsection (1) and substituting the following subsection 
 
71 
 
 “(1) An entity or a professional shall, with respect to a legal arrangement that 
is a trust, undertake identification and verification measures by  
(a) 
obtaining the following information  
 (i) the name of the trust; 
 (ii) the date and country of establishment of the trust; 
(iii) where there is an agent acting for the trust, the name and address 
of the agent; 
(iv) the nature and purpose of the trust;  
 (v) the powers that regulate and bind the trust, as well as the names 
of the relevant persons having a senior management position in 
relation to the trust; and 
 (vi) the ownership and control structure of the trust; and 
(b) 
identifying and verifying the identity of 
 (i)  the beneficial owners of the trust; and 
 (ii) any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the trust, or 
the settlor of the trust.”;  
(c) by inserting after subsection (1), the following new subsection 
“(1A) Where an entity or a professional is a trustee of a trust, that entity or 
professional shall, in addition to the requirements established under subsection (1), 
obtain the name and address of any other regulated agent of, and service provider 
to, the trust, including any investment advisor or manager, accountant, and tax 
advisor.”;  
(d) by deleting subsection (2), and substituting the following subsections 
 “(2) An entity or a professional shall perform customer due diligence on its or 
his or her business relationship with a trust and apply enhanced customer due 
diligence where, from its or his or her risk assessment, it is determined that a 
relationship with a trust presents a higher level of risk.” 
 (2A) Where an entity or a professional enters into a business relationship with 
or conducts a one-off transaction in relation to a legal arrangement, other than a 
trust, the provisions of this section are modified to apply to that legal arrangement.”    
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 28 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following Explanation 
 
“[Explanation 
(i) 
It is important in establishing proportionate AML/CFT systems and 
procedures that entities’ and professionals’ ML/TF risk assessments of trusts take 
into account the following relevant factors, in addition to those outlined in the 
Explanation to section 19 of this Code  
 
72 
 
 the country in which the trust is established;  
 the legal form, nature and purpose of the trust (e.g. fixed interest, 
discretionary, testamentary, purpose, bare, wealth management);  
 the type and value of assets to be held or managed in the trust;  
 the ownership and control structure of the trust;  
 the risks posed by the beneficial owners of the trust and, in particular, the 
settlor where the trust has not yet been established.   
 
(ii) 
In establishing a business relationship relating to trust business, an entity 
or a professional must identify and verify the existence of the trust or the identify 
and verify details of the trust to be established (as applicable).  This involves 
obtaining information outlined in subsection 1(a) above.  Where the trust is already 
established, it is imperative that the entity or professional obtains a copy of the 
trust deed and any amendments to the trust.  Where the trust is yet to be established, 
the entity or professional may obtain copies of draft trust deeds, contractual 
agreements, declarations from the settlor of the trust and verification documents of 
the source of assets to be settled in the trust, to verify the details of the proposed 
trust.  
 
(iii) 
Although an entity or professional must obtain identifying information and 
verifying evidence in relation to trusts as outlined in paragraph (ii) above, trusts 
do not have legal personalities.  As such, the applicant for business or customer in 
relation to a trust, is a combination of its beneficial owners.  These include the 
trustees, settlors, beneficiaries, classes or characteristics of beneficiaries, any 
appointed protectors, and any other person that has control over the trust. 
Consequently, the identification and verification requirements under sections 24 
(verification of an individual) and 25 (verification of a legal person) of this Code 
applies for all the beneficial owners of the trust.  An entity or a professional is 
neither required to establish the detailed terms of the trust nor the rights of the 
beneficiaries.  
 
Identification and Verification of Beneficiaries of Trusts 
(iv) 
Identification and verification of a trust (i.e. identification and verification 
of the beneficial owners of the trust and any person acting on behalf of a party to 
the trust) must be undertaken at the point of establishing a business relationship or 
engaging in a one-off transaction.  However, the Code offers other timelines when 
it comes to identification and verification of beneficiaries or classes and 
characteristics of beneficiaries.  Specifically, where it relates to the identification 
of beneficiaries, section 19(4A) of this Code provides the following:  
 
 where a beneficiary is specifically named as the beneficiary of a trust, the 
entity or professional must take the full name of this person, if available at the 
establishment of the business relationship, or as soon as the beneficiary is 
specifically named; and  
 
73 
 
 
 where a beneficiary is designated by characteristics or by class, an entity or 
professional must obtain, at the time of establishment of the business 
relationship or as soon as the beneficiary is designated, sufficient information 
about the beneficiary that it or he or she would be able to identify the 
beneficiary at the time of payout.  
 
Additionally, section 23(2C) of this Code permits verification of beneficiaries of 
trusts at or before the time of payout, or the point at which a beneficiary exercises 
the vested right under the trust.  This applies whether the beneficiary is specifically 
named as a beneficiary of the trust, or the beneficiary is part of a designation by 
class or characteristics. 
 
Designated classes or characteristics of beneficiaries 
(v) 
Identifying the beneficiaries of designated classes or characteristics of trust 
can be different, depending on the designations of beneficiaries made and the 
number of different types of class or characteristics definitions made in a trust.  The 
following are examples of designated classes or characteristics of beneficiaries:  
 
 the children of “Mrs. A”;  
 The grandchildren of Ms. A; 
 The adult children and spouses of Mr. A;  
 Charity ABC; 
 The employees of company A; 
 Pension holders and their dependents; or 
 Unit holders. 
 
Below is an example of the identification and verification steps that an entity or a 
professional should take in relation to a trust with designated classes or 
characteristics.  
 
The beneficiaries of trust ABC are the children of Mr. A. The entity or professional 
needs to:    
 Obtain the names of all the children of Mr. A;  
 Before payout:   
o Identify the children of Mr. A (including each of the children’s full 
legal name (including any former name, other current name or aliases 
used), gender, principal residential address and date of birth); and 
o Verify the identity of the children of Mr. A in accordance with section 
24 of this Code. 
 
(vi) 
It should be noted that in circumstances where an entity or a professional 
makes a determination that, having regard to the customer risk assessment 
conducted in accordance with section 12 (1) (b) of this Code, a relationship with a 
 
74 
 
trust does not present higher risks, relevant customer due diligence information 
must be obtained with respect to the trust.  Where an entity or professional makes 
a determination that such a relationship presents a higher risk, enhanced customer 
due diligence information must be obtained. The nature of the identification to be 
made or verification to be effected is a matter of judgment for the entity or the 
professional, based on the level or risk posed by the trust structure, including the 
beneficial owners of the trust. In verifying the appointment of a trustee, it is 
important to verify the nature of the trustee’s duties.  
 
(vii) 
Throughout the existence of a trust, changes in the beneficial owners, 
jurisdiction, assets of the trust, etc., may occur.  For this reason, entities and 
professionals must ensure that ongoing customer due diligence on their trust 
relationships is undertaken in accordance with section 21 of this Code; updating, 
noting and properly recording any changes accordingly.  Where any new beneficial 
owners are introduced to a trust, an entity or professional must identify and verify 
these new beneficial owners. These changes should prompt a re-assessment of the 
trust relationship.   
 
(viii) 
Legal arrangements refer to trusts or other similar arrangements such as 
fiducie, treuhand and fideicomiso.  In the Virgin Islands trusts are the only legal 
arrangements that are established, as such the explanation relates prevalently to 
trusts.  Notwithstanding, where an entity or professional establishes a business 
relationship or undertakes a transaction with or for another type of legal 
arrangement, it or he or she must be satisfied that the legal arrangement has been 
verified in a manner similar to the verification of a trust.”. 
 
 
Explanation to section 29 amended 
31. The Explanation to section 29 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
 in paragraph (ii), by deleting the words “the assessed money laundering 
and/or terrorist financing risk presented by the applicant or customer”, and 
substituting the words, “the assessed money laundering, terrorist financing 
and/or proliferation financing risk presented by the applicant or 
customer”; 
(b) 
in paragraph (v), in the fifth bullet point, by inserting the word “and” at the 
end of the bullet point; and  
(c) 
by deleting paragraph (vi).  
 
 
Explanation to section 30 amended 
32. The Explanation to section 30 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in paragraph 
(ii), by deleting the last bullet point and substituting the following bullet point 
“• 
a director, manager or senior officer of a licensed entity, or of a branch or 
subsidiary of a group headquartered in a country that the entity’s or professional’s 
 
75 
 
risk assessment has not determined to present a higher risk or other well-regulated 
country that applies group standards to subsidiaries and branches worldwide and 
tests the application of and compliance with such standards.” 
 
Section 31 amended 
33. Section 31 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsection (5), by deleting 
paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(a) the third party has in place a system of monitoring any change in risk with respect to 
the applicant for business or customer and reviewing and updating customer due 
diligence information on the applicant for business or customer, including information 
on beneficial ownership 
(i)  on a risk sensitive basis, prioritising the review and update of customers that 
present a higher risk at least once every year; and  
(ii) upon certain trigger events as determined by senior management of the third 
party; and”.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 31 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (iii), by deleting the words “legal persons (companies) and 
legal arrangements (partnerships and trusts), these entities from being used 
to carry out money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crime 
activities;” and substituting the words, “legal persons (companies and 
partnerships) and legal arrangements (trusts), these entities from being 
used to carry out money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation 
financing and other financial crime activities;” 
(b) 
in paragraph (iv), by deleting the words “paragraph (ii) of”; and  
(c) 
by deleting paragraph (viii) and substituting the following paragraph 
 
“(viii)  One of the fundamental elements of customer due diligence is the 
need to update information on the applicant for business or customer. 
Accordingly, an entity or a professional that relies on an introduction by a 
third party must ensure that the third party has in place appropriate 
measures for updating information on the applicant or customer. This will 
include changes in the applicant’s general profile (business or otherwise), 
name, address, registered office or principal place of business, senior 
management, beneficial ownership, purpose and nature of business, risk 
profile, etc. The obligation to review and update an applicant’s or a 
customer’s due diligence information must be carried out periodically, with 
priority being placed on reviewing and updating high risk applicants or 
customers at least once every year. An applicant’s or a customer’s due 
diligence should also be established upon certain trigger events (e.g. 
significant changes in ownership, change in the customer’s location, 
customer becoming a PEP). While this obligation lies with the third party, 
the entity or customer is equally obligated to test and ensure that the third 
 
76 
 
party is complying with its system of reviewing and updating the applicants’ 
or customers’ customer due diligence information.”. 
 
 
Section 31A amended 
34. Section 31A of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) subsection (1) 
(i)  in paragraph (c), by deleting the words, “within a period of forty eight hours, 
but not exceeding seventy-two hours (calculated from the time of dispatch of 
the request)” and substituting the words, “within 1 business day”; and  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (k); and 
(b)  by revoking subsection (3). 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 31A of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (iv), by deleting the first bullet point and substituting the 
following bullet point;  
“
notify the Agency or the Commission, as the case may be, in writing 
of the failure to notify contrary to the written agreement by 
providing the name, address, competent authority by which the third 
party is regulated, supervised or monitored for compliance with 
anti-money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing obligations, and other details of the third party as would 
enable the Agency or the Commission to properly identify the third 
party;”; 
 
(b) 
in paragraph (vi), by deleting the first sentence and substituting the 
following sentence 
“With regard to a third party’s undertaking in a written agreement to 
provide relevant information whenever requested by the entity or 
professional within the prescribed time of 1 business day, public holidays 
and non-working days shall be excluded.”;  
 
(c) 
in paragraph (vii), by deleting the first 3 sentences; and  
 
(d) 
by deleting paragraph (viii). 
 
Section 31B amended 
35. Section 31B(5) of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph  
 
77 
 
“(a) 
prepare a report of its testing, including 
 (i) the name of the third party relationship that was tested;  
(ii) the date of the testing;  
(iii) the percentage of customers introduced by the third party for which due 
diligence and documentation was requested during the testing; 
(iv) details of customer information requested from the third party during 
testing;  
 (v) the results of testing of the third party relationship; and 
(vi) any follow-up actions to be taken as a result of the testing”; and 
(b) in paragraph (b), by deleting the word “record” and substituting the word “report”. 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 31B of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (i), by deleting the first 3 sentences and the word 
“Accordingly” at the beginning of the fourth sentence; and  
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by deleting the last sentence. 
 
 
 
 
Section 33 is amended 
36. Section 33 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a)  in paragraph (a), by deleting the word “and” at the end of the paragraph;  
(b) in paragraph (b), by deleting the full-stop at the end of the paragraph and substituting 
the word, “; and”; and 
(c) by inserting after paragraph (b), the following new paragraph 
“(c) 
“shell bank” means a bank, or any other financial institution engaged in 
activities similar to banking business, that 
 (i) does not have meaningful mind and management in the country in which 
it is incorporated or registered; and  
(ii) is not affiliated with a regulated financial group that is subject to effective 
consolidated supervision.”. 
 
 
Explanation to section 34 amended 
37.  The Explanation to section 34 of the principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting 
after the words “money laundering, terrorist financing” wherever they appear in the paragraph, 
the words, “, proliferation financing”. 
 
 
Section 35 amended 
38. Section 35 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
 
78 
 
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  in paragraph (b)(iii), by inserting after the words “terrorist financing”, the words 
“, proliferation financing”; and  
(ii) in paragraphs (c) and (f), by deleting the words, “anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing” and substituting the words, “anti-money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing”; and  
(b) in subsection (3), by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation 
financing”. 
Explanation to section 36 amended 
39. The Explanation to section 36 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in the second 
sentence, by deleting the words, “money laundering or terrorist financing”, and substituting the 
words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing”. 
 
 
Section 37 amended 
40. Section 37 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  by inserting in their appropriate alphabetical order, the following new 
definitions 
““cross-border transfer of funds” means 
(a) a single wire transfer in which the payment service provider of the payer 
and the payment service provider of the payee are located in different 
countries; or  
(b) any chain of a transfer of funds in which at least one payment service 
provider is located in a different country; 
“full beneficiary information”, means 
(a) the payee’s name; and  
(b) the payee’s account number, or a unique identifier in the absence of an 
account number;  
“straight-through processing” means payment transactions that are conducted 
electronically without the need for manual intervention;”;  
(ii) by deleting the definition of “full originator information” and substituting the 
following definition 
“full originator information” means the name of the payer, together with  
(a) the payer’s account number, or a unique identifier in the absence of an 
account; and 
(b) the payer’s address; or 
 
79 
 
(c) the payer’s date and place of birth; or  
(d) the customer identification number or national identity number of the 
payer;”;  
(iii) by renaming the definition “intermediate payment service provider” as 
“intermediary payment service provider”; and 
(iv) in the definition of “unique identifier”, by inserting at the end of the definition, 
before the full-stop, the words “, which permits traceability of the transaction”;   
(b) by inserting after subsection (2), the following new subsection 
 “(3) A payment service provider that holds a Class A licence pursuant to the 
Financing and Money Services Act, Revised Edition 2020, shall comply with all 
the relevant requirements of this Part, in the countries in which it operates directly 
or through its agents.” 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 37 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(i) 
This Part of the Code effectively implements measures required by 
FATF Recommendations that ensure transparency in the execution of wire 
transfers. The application relates to both domestic and cross-border 
transfers so as to facilitate the tracking of funds associated with such 
transfers by persons who may be engaged in money laundering, terrorist 
financing, proliferation financing and other forms of financial crime. 
Implementation of these measures is essential to the Territory’s 
international cooperation regime and facilitates trade and commerce where 
wire transfers allows for smooth business transactions.  Failure to 
implement these measures could have the adverse effect of having financial 
institutions in compliant jurisdictions refusing to accommodate business 
originating from or destined to the Territory.”;  
 
(b) 
in paragraph (ii), by inserting after the last sentence, the following new 
sentence 
“Payment service providers are also required to provide information on the 
persons receiving the proceeds of the wire transfer.”; and  
 
(c) 
in paragraph (iii), by inserting after the words, “terrorist financing”, the 
words, “, proliferation financing”.  
 
Section 39 amended 
41. Section 39 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by inserting after the words “full originator information” the 
words, “and full beneficiary information”;  
 
80 
 
(b) in subsection (2)(a), by deleting the words “the complete information on the payer” 
and substituting the words, “full originator information and full beneficiary 
information that is fully traceable within the payee’s country”;  
(c) in subsection (5)(c), by inserting after the words “terrorist financing”, the words, “, 
proliferation financing”;  
(d) by deleting subsection (6) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(6) The payment service provider of the payer shall keep records of full 
originator information on the payer and full beneficiary information on the payee 
that accompany the transfer of funds for a period of at least 5 years 
(a) 
from the date of the wire transfer, in the case of a wire transfer not 
made from an account; and  
(b) 
from the date that the business relationship ended, in the case of a 
wire transfer made from an account.”;  
(e) in subsection (7)(a), by deleting the word “payee” and substituting the word “payer”;  
(f) by deleting subsection (8) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(8) Where subsection (7) applies, the payment service provider of the payer 
shall, upon request from the payment service provider of the payee, the Agency or 
the Commission, make available the full originator information and full beneficiary 
information within 3 working days of receiving the request, excluding the day on 
which the request was made.”;  
(g) by deleting subsection (9) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(9) Where a payment service provider of the payer fails to comply with a 
request from the payment service provider of the payee to provide the full originator 
information or full beneficiary information within the period specified in subsection 
(8), the payment service provider of the payee shall notify the Agency (in the case 
of a payment service provider that is supervised by the Agency) or the Commission 
(in the case of a payment service provider of the payer that is regulated by the 
Commission), which shall require the payment service provider of the payer to 
comply with the request immediately.”; 
(h) by deleting subsection (10) and substituting the following subsection; and  
 “(10) Where a payment service provider of the payer fails to comply with a 
request from the Agency or Commission pursuant to subsection (8) or an instruction 
from the Agency or Commission to comply with a request pursuant to subsection 
(9), it or he or she commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against under 
section 27 (4) of the Act.”; and  
(i) by inserting after subsection (11), the following new subsection 
 “(12) The payment service provider of the payer shall not execute a transfer of 
funds where the transfer of funds does not comply with the requirements of this 
section.” 
 
 
 
81 
 
The Explanation to section 39 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and 
substituted by the following Explanation 
 
 
“[Explanation  
(i) 
A fundamental AML/CFT principle with respect to cross-border wire 
transfers, is the provision of full originator and full beneficiary information by the 
payment service provider of the payer to the payment service provider of the payee, 
along with the transfer.  The payment service provider of the payer must ensure 
that the originator information on the payer is accurate and complete through 
verification of the customer’s information.  Where the payer holds an account with 
the payment service provider of the payer, the payer’s originator information may 
be considered verified based on the customer due diligence (including ongoing 
customer due diligence) measures undertaken with respect to the business 
relationship.  However, a payment service provider of a payer may wish to verify 
and undertake additional customer due diligence measures in relation to a 
customer that holds an account, prior to executing a wire transfer, where additional 
risks are present (e.g. transfers to a high-risk jurisdiction, involvement of a higher 
risk third party in the transaction, a type of transfer that is unusual for the 
particular customer).   For a payer that does not hold an account with the payment 
service provider of the payer, verification of the customer’s information is not 
required where the transfer is less than $1,000 and the entity or professional does 
not suspect ML/TF. It is, however, important to note that verification of the 
customer’s information will be required where the transaction is linked to other 
transfers which together exceed $1,000.       
 
(ii) 
Where domestic wire transfers are concerned, the payment service provider 
of the payer may supply limited specified information with the transfer; however, 
that payment service provider is required to provide full originator or beneficiary 
information within 3 days after the date of the request from the payment service 
provider of the payee, the Agency or the Commission.  It is advisable that such 
requests be documented; this is particularly important for enforcement purposes 
where a request is not complied with as provided under this Code. Where a payment 
service provider of the payee has not received the information within the specified 
period, the payment service provide may notify the Commission, where the payment 
service provider of the payer is regulated by the Commission.  Where the payment 
service provider of the payer is not regulated by the Commission, the payment 
service provider of the payee should notify the Agency.  
 
(iii) 
Where the Agency or the Commission is notified of a failure to accede to a 
request within the specified period, the directives issued by the Agency or the 
Commission must be produced in writing. A record of regular or persistent breach 
on the part of a payment service provider of the payer should itself, where the 
payment service provider of the payer is licensed by the Commission, be a serious 
cause for concern and for necessary action by the Commission against the payment 
service provider of the payer. 
 
 
82 
 
(iv) 
While routine batched wire transfers may not ordinarily present money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing risks, entities are 
required to adopt relevant measures to ensure that non-routine transactions are 
not batched in circumstances where doing so will or is likely to present such risks. 
 
(v) 
Irrespective of the amount of the transfer, whether the customer has an 
account with the payment service provider of the payer, or whether transfers are 
ordered for individual or batch transfers, the payment service provider of the payer 
must have systems in place to detect whether a transfer is suspicious and initiate 
internal suspicion reporting processes promptly.  Some examples of suspicious 
behaviour relevant to the ordering of transfers may include  
 a payer refusing to provide required information;  
 the originator information of a payer cannot be verified; or 
 a payer seeking to route the transfer through intermediary payment service 
providers, with no apparent rationale. 
 
(vi) 
The payment service provider of the payer is required to maintain records 
of all information relating to wire transfers, including any requests that may have 
been received from the payment service provider of the payee or any intermediary 
payment service provider, for a period of 5 years from the date of the transfer, in 
the case of a wire transfer not made from an account. Where the transfer is made 
from an account, an entity or professional must maintain the wire transfer records 
for 5 years after the business relationship with the accountholder has ended.]” 
 
 
 
Section 40 amended 
42. Section 40 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1), by deleting the words “full originator information on the payer” 
and substituting the words, “full originator information and full beneficiary 
information”;  
(b) in subsection (2), by deleting the words “for the detection of any missing or 
incomplete full originator information” and substituting the words, “, including 
post-event monitoring or real-time monitoring where feasible, for the detection of 
any missing or incomplete full originator information or full beneficiary 
information”;  
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words “the full originator information is” and 
substituting the words, “the full originator information and full beneficiary 
information are”;  
(d) by inserting after subsection (3), the following new subsections 
“(3A) The payment service provider of the payee shall verify the identity of the 
beneficiary on the basis of documents, data or information obtained from a reliable 
and independent source. 
 
83 
 
 (3B) In the case of a transfer to an account, the payment service provider of the 
payee may deem verification of the payee to have taken place if it has complied 
with the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 
2020, and this Code relating to the verification of the identity of the payee in 
connection with the opening of that account. 
 (3C) In the case of a transfer of funds not made to an account, the payee shall 
be deemed to have been verified by a payment service provider of the payee if  
(a) 
the transfer consists of a transaction of an amount not exceeding 
$1,000;  
(b)   the transfer is not a transaction that is carried out in several 
operations that appear to be linked and that together comprise an 
amount exceeding $1,000; and 
(c) 
the payment service provider of the payee does not suspect that the 
payee is engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing, 
proliferation financing or other financial crime.”;  
(e) by deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(4) Where the payment service provider of the payee becomes aware that the 
full originator information or full beneficiary information is missing or incomplete 
when receiving transfers of funds, the payment service provider of the payee shall 
have risk-based policies and procedures to determine whether to  
(a) 
execute, reject or suspend the transfer; and 
(b) 
undertake an appropriate follow-up action which may include 
 (i) requesting the missing information on the payer;  
 (ii) rejecting future transfers of funds from the payment service 
provider of the payer; 
(iii) restricting or terminating its relationship with the payment 
service provider of the payer;  
 (iv) determining whether the transfer of funds or any related 
transaction should be reported to the Agency as a suspicious 
transaction or activity; and   
 (v) taking any other reasonable measures to mitigate risks of money 
laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing 
involved.”; 
(f)  by revoking subsection (5);  
(g) by deleting subsection (6) and substituting the following subsection 
   “(6)  The payment service provider of the payee shall keep records of any 
information received on the payer and the payee, as well as any information on the 
verification of the payee, for a period of at least 5 years 
 
84 
 
(a) from the date the wire transfer was completed, in the case of a wire 
transfer to a payee that does not hold an account; and  
(b) from the date that the business relationship ended, in the case of a 
wire transfer to a payee that holds an account.”; and 
(h) in subsection (7), by deleting the words “the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act” 
and substituting the words, “the Act”. 
 
 
 
 
The following Explanation to section 40 of the principal Code of Practice is 
inserted 
 
“[Explanation: 
(i) 
Section 40 imposes obligations on payment service providers that receive 
transfers, in order to ensure that appropriate information is collected and recorded 
before distributing funds to a payee.  In order to aid in transparency and efficient 
tracking of transactions, the payment service provider of the payee must have 
systems in place to detect whether the incoming transfer has the required full 
originator and full beneficiary information.  
(ii) 
The payment service provider of the payee must have risk-based policies 
and procedures in place to determine the appropriate action to take where required 
information is missing or incomplete.  The payment service provider of the payee 
may decide to execute, reject or suspend the transfer and perform relevant follow-
up action as outlined in subsection (4), based on the perceived ML/TF risks.  
 (iii) 
Prior to disbursing any funds from a transfer, a payment service provider 
of the payee must ensure that the payee’s information is accurate and up-to-date 
by verification of the payee’s identity.  Where the payee holds an account with the 
payment service provider of the payee, the beneficiary information may be 
considered verified based on the customer due diligence (including ongoing 
customer due diligence) measures undertaken with respect to the business 
relationship.  However, a payment service provider of a payee may wish to verify 
and undertake additional customer due diligence measures on a payee prior to 
executing a wire transfer where higher risks are present (e.g. transfers from a high-
risk jurisdiction, involvement of a higher risk third party in the transaction).   For 
a payee that does not hold an account with the payment service provider of the 
payee, verification of the customer’s information is not required where the transfer 
does not exceed $1,000 and the entity or professional does not suspect ML/TF, 
unless the transfer is linked to other transfers which together exceed $1,000.   
(iv) 
Irrespective of the amount of the transfer, whether the customer has an 
account with the payment service provider of the payee, or whether transfers are 
received for individual or batch transfers, the payment service provider of the payee 
must have systems in place to detect whether a transfer is suspicious and initiate 
internal suspicion reporting processes promptly.  Some examples of suspicious 
behaviour relevant to transfers received may include  
 
85 
 
 a transfer with missing, inaccurate or incomplete information on the payer 
and/or the payee;  
 a payee for whom or which beneficiary information cannot be verified;  
 a payee seeking to route the transfer through intermediary payment service 
providers, with no apparent rationale; or  
 a transfer for which there is evidence suggesting that the intended final 
recipient is not the payee. 
(v) 
The payment service provider of the payee is required to maintain records 
of all information received from the payment service provider of the payer and any 
intermediary payment service providers. These records must be maintained for a 
period of 5 years from the date of the transaction (in the case of a transfer to a 
payee that does not hold an account) or from the date a business relationship ends 
(in the case of a payee that is an account holder).  The records must include  
 any information that pertains to the transfer, whether received through a 
messaging system or through any other means; and  
 evidence of verification of its payee identities.]” 
 
 
Section 41 amended 
43. Section 41 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (2), by inserting after the words “the payer”, the words “and the 
payee”;  
(b) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(3) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), an intermediary payment service 
provider may use a system with technical limitations which prevents the 
information on the payer and the payee from accompanying a cross-border transfer 
of funds, where the intermediary payment service provider will make the transfer 
of funds to another payment service provider in the Virgin Islands.”;  
(c) by revoking subsection (4);  
(d) by deleting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(5) An intermediary payment service provider that uses a system with 
technical limitations shall, upon request from the payment service provider of the 
payee, make available to the payment service provider of the payee all the 
information on the payer and the payee that the intermediary payment service 
provider has received, whether or not the information is the full originator 
information and full beneficiary information, within 3 working days of receiving 
the request, excluding the day on which the request was made.”; 
(e) by deleting subsection (6) and substituting the following subsection  
 
86 
 
 “(6) An intermediary payment service provider that uses a system with 
technical limitations which prevents the information on the payer or the payee from 
accompanying the transfer of funds shall keep records of all the information on the 
payer and the payee that it has received for a period of at least 5 years from the date 
the transfer was completed.”; and 
(f) by inserting after subsection (6), the following new subsections 
 “(7) An intermediary payment service provider shall put in place effective 
procedures, consistent with straight-through processing, for the detection of wire 
transfers that lack full originator information and full beneficiary information.    
 
(8) Subject to subsection (9), where an intermediary payment service 
provider becomes aware that the full originator information or full beneficiary 
information is missing or incomplete when receiving transfers of funds, the 
intermediary payment service provider shall, relying on its risk-based policies and 
procedures, determine whether to  
(a) execute, reject or suspend the transfer; and  
(b) undertake an appropriate follow-up action which may include 
 (i) requesting the missing information from the payment service 
provider of the payer; 
 (ii) rejecting future transfers of funds from the payment service 
provider of the payer; 
(iii) restrict or terminate its relationship with the payment service 
provider of the payer; and 
(iv) determining whether the transfer of funds or any related 
transaction should be reported to the Agency as a suspicious 
transaction or activity.  
 
(9) Where an intermediary payment service provider executes a wire transfer 
that does not contain the full originator and full beneficiary information, the 
intermediary service provider may only use a system with technical limitations if 
the intermediary service provider provides confirmation to the payment service 
provider of the payee, that the information is incomplete.” 
    
 
 
The following Explanation to section 41 of the principal Code of Practice is 
inserted 
 
“[Explanation: 
(i) 
For cross-border wire transfers, an intermediary payment service provider 
must ensure that information on the payer and payee that it receives with a transfer 
is kept with the transfer, through a messaging system capable of carrying full 
originator information and full beneficiary information.  However, where technical 
limitations associated with a messaging system prevents all information received 
on the payer and payee from accompanying the transfer, an intermediary payment 
 
87 
 
service provider may use the messaging system with technical limitations where the 
intermediary payment service provider⸻ 
 is forwarding the transfer to a payment service provider in the Virgin 
Islands; and 
 agrees to provide all the information that accompanied the wire transfer 
within 3 working days after the payment service provider of the payee 
makes such a request
(ii) 
Intermediary payment service providers must have measures in place to 
identify wire transfers, including those carried out with straight-through 
processing, that do not have all the information on a payer and payee that would 
constitute full originator information and full beneficiary information.  Where 
missing or incomplete information has been identified, the intermediary payment 
service provider should have risk-based policies, procedures and controls in place 
to determine whether to 
 execute, suspend or reject the transfer; and  
 apply appropriate following up action.  
(iii) 
Where the intermediary payment service provider determines that it should 
execute the transfer with the missing or incomplete information, the intermediary 
payment service provider must confirm to the payment service provider of the payee 
that the information is incomplete.  This confirmation may take place via⸻ 
 a payment or messaging system; or  
 another procedure that is accepted or agreed upon between the 
intermediary payment service provider and the payment service 
provider of the payee.   
(iv) 
Where the intermediary payment service provider decides to suspend or 
reject the transfer, follow-up action must be undertaken, which may include such 
actions outlined in subsection (8).   
(v) 
The intermediary payment service provider is required to maintain records 
of all information on the payer and payee that it receives with each transfer, for a 
period of 5 years.]” 
 
 
 
 
Section 41A inserted 
44. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting after section 41, the following new 
section 
 
“Payment service provider that holds both payer and payee side of transfer 
 
41A. Where a payment service provider that holds a Class A licence pursuant to the 
Financing and Money Services Act, Revised Edition 2020, controls both the payer and the 
payee side of a transfer of funds, that payment service provider shall 
 
88 
 
(a) consider the information from both the payer and payee sides of the transfer of 
funds in order to determine whether a suspicious transaction report should be 
filed; and  
(b) file a suspicious transaction report in any country affected by the suspicious 
transfer of funds and make relevant transaction information available to the 
Agency and the relevant competent authority of any country affected by the 
suspicious transfer.” 
 
Part VA inserted 
45. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting after Part V, the following new Part 
 
“PART VA  
 
VIRTUAL ASSETS TRANSFERS 
 
Definitions for and application of this Part 
41B.  (1) For the purposes of this Part 
“batch file transfer of virtual assets” means several individual transfers of virtual 
assets which are bundled together for transmission;  
“beneficiary” means the natural or legal person or the legal arrangement that will 
own the virtual asset on completion of a transfer; 
“beneficiary virtual asset service provider” means a virtual asset service provider 
which received a transfer of virtual assets on behalf of a beneficiary;  
“complete beneficiary information”, means  
(a) the beneficiary’s name; and  
(b) the beneficiary’s account number where such an account is used to process 
the transaction, or a unique identifier in the absence of an account number;  
“complete originator information”, means the name and address of the originator, 
together with  
(a) the originator’s account number where the account is used to process a 
transaction, or a unique identifier in the absence of an account; and 
(b) the originator’s date and place of birth; or  
(c) the customer identification number or national identity number of the payer; 
“intermediary virtual asset service provider” means a virtual asset service provider 
which 
(a) participates in the execution of a transfer of virtual assets; and  
(b) is not the originating virtual asset service provider or the beneficiary virtual 
asset service provider;  
 
89 
 
“obliged entity” means a person who receives a transfer of virtual assets on behalf 
of a beneficiary and is licensed or registered and supervised for the provision 
of virtual asset services in a jurisdiction outside the Virgin Islands; 
“originating virtual asset service provider” means a virtual asset service provider 
which conducts a transfer of virtual assets on behalf of an originator;  
“originator” means  
(a)  a person that places an order with the virtual asset service provider for the 
virtual asset transfer; or  
(b)  where the transfer is carried out by a virtual asset service provider on behalf 
of a client or other third party, the client or third party who owned the virtual 
asset immediately before the transfer; 
“transfer of virtual asset” or “virtual assets transfer” means any transaction carried 
out on behalf of an originator with a view to making the virtual asset available 
to a beneficiary; and 
“virtual asset service provider” means a person who provides, as a business, one or 
more of the following activities or operations for or on behalf of another person 
(a) exchange between virtual assets and fiat currencies; 
(b) exchange between one or more forms of virtual assets; 
(c) transfer of virtual assets, where the transfer relates to conducting a 
transaction on behalf of another person that moves a virtual asset from one 
virtual asset address or account to another;  
(d) safekeeping or administration of virtual assets or instruments enabling 
control over virtual assets;  
(e) participation in, and provision of, financial services related to an issuer’s 
offer or sale of a virtual asset;  
(f) perform such other activity or operation as may be specified by enactment. 
 
 
(2) This Part applies to the transfer of virtual assets which is sent or received by a 
virtual asset service provider that is established in the Virgin Islands. 
 
 
(3) A virtual assets service provider shall comply with all the relevant requirements of 
this Part, in the countries in which it operates directly or through its agents.   
 
Originating virtual asset service provider 
41C. (1) An originating virtual asset service provider shall, in relation to every transfer 
 
 
(a) obtain and maintain complete originator information and complete beneficiary 
information on each transfer of virtual assets; and  
 
 
(b) submit complete originator information and complete beneficiary information 
to the beneficiary virtual assets service provider or obliged entity, with the 
transfer of virtual assets.  
 
90 
 
 
 
(2)   Subsection (1) does not apply in the case of a batch file virtual asset transfer from 
a single payer, if  
 
 
(a) the batch file contains complete originator information and complete 
beneficiary information that is fully traceable within the beneficiary’s country; 
and 
 
 
(b)   the individual virtual assets transfers bundled together in the batch file carry 
the account number of the payer or a unique identifier. 
 
 
(3) The originating virtual assets service provider shall, before transferring any virtual 
assets, verify the complete originator information on the basis of documents, data or 
information obtained from a reliable and independent source. 
 
 
(4) In the case of a transfer from an account, the originating virtual assets service 
provider may deem verification of the complete originator information to have taken place if 
it has complied with the provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised 
Edition 2020, and this Code relating to the verification of the identity of the originator in 
connection with the opening of that account. 
 
 
(5) In the case of a transfer of virtual assets not made from an account, the complete 
originator information on the payer shall be deemed to have been verified by an originating 
virtual assets service provider if   
 
 
(a) the virtual assets transfer does not exceed $1,000 in value;  
 
 
(b)   the virtual assets transfer is not carried out in several operations that appear to 
be linked and that together comprise a value exceeding $1,000; and 
 
 
(c) the originating virtual assets provider does not suspect that the originator is 
engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing or 
other financial crime. 
 
 
(6) Information accompanying a transfer of virtual assets in accordance with 
subsection (1) shall be provided to the beneficiary virtual assets service provider or obliged 
entity 
 
 
(a) simultaneously with the transfer of virtual assets;  
 
 
(b) either directly by attaching the information with the transfer, or providing the 
information indirectly; and  
 
 
(c) in a secure manner that protects  
(i) the integrity and use of the information; and  
(ii) the information from unauthorised disclosure.  
    
(7) A beneficiary virtual assets service provider shall, upon request from the Agency 
or Commission, provide complete originating information and complete beneficiary 
information that accompanies a transfer of virtual assets, within 3 working days of receiving 
the request, excluding the date on which the request is made.  
 
 
(8)  Where a beneficiary virtual assets service provider fails to comply with a request 
from the Agency or Commission pursuant to subsection (7), it or he or she commits an offence 
and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27 (4) of the Act. 
 
91 
 
 
 
(9)  The originating virtual assets service provider shall keep records of complete 
originator information and complete beneficiary information that accompany the transfer of 
virtual assets, for a period of at least 5 years 
 
 
(a) from the date of the transfer, in the case of a transfer not made from an account; 
and  
 
 
(b) from the date that the business relationship ended, in the case of a transfer made 
from an account. 
 
(10) The originating virtual assets service provider shall not execute a transfer of virtual 
assets where the transfer of virtual assets does not comply with the requirements of this 
section.  
 
Beneficiary Virtual Asset Service Provider 
41D. (1) A beneficiary virtual assets service provider shall 
 
 
(a) on receipt of a transfer of virtual assets, obtain and maintain complete 
originating information and complete beneficiary information on each transfer 
of virtual assets received; and  
 
 
(b) put effective procedures in place for the detection of incomplete or missing 
complete originator information or complete beneficiary information, including 
post-event monitoring or real-time monitoring, where feasible.  
 
(2) In the case of batch file virtual assets transfers, complete originator information and 
complete beneficiary information are required only in the batch file, and not in the individual 
virtual assets transfers bundled together in it.  
 
(3) A beneficiary virtual assets service provider shall verify the accuracy of 
information on the beneficiary under paragraph (1) on the basis of documents, data or 
information obtained from a reliable and independent source.  
 
(4) In the case of a transfer to an account, the beneficiary virtual assets service provider 
may deem verification of the beneficiary to have taken place if it has complied with the 
provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 2020, and this Code 
relating to the verification of the identity of the beneficiary in connection with the opening of 
that account. 
 
(5) In the case of a transfer of virtual assets not made to an account, the beneficiary 
shall be deemed to have been verified by a virtual assets service provider if 
 
 
(a) the virtual assets transfer does not exceed a value of $1,000;  
 
 
(b) the virtual assets transfer is not carried out in several operations that appear to 
be linked and that together comprise a value exceeding $1,000; and 
 
 
(c) the beneficiary virtual assets service provider does not suspect that the 
beneficiary is engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation 
financing or other financial crime. 
 
(6) Where a beneficiary virtual assets service provider becomes aware that the 
complete originator information or complete beneficiary information is missing or incomplete 
 
92 
 
when receiving a transfer of virtual assets, the virtual assets service provider shall have risk-
based policies and procedures to determine whether to 
 
 
(a) execute, reject or suspend the transfer; and 
 
 
(b) undertake an appropriate follow-up action, which may include 
 (i) requesting the missing information on the originator;  
(ii) rejecting future transfers of funds from the originating virtual assets service 
provider; 
(iii) restricting or terminating its relationship with the originating virtual assets 
service provider;  
(iv) determining whether the transfer of virtual assets or any related transaction 
should be reported to the Agency as a suspicious transaction or activity; and   
(v) taking any other reasonable measures to mitigate risks of money laundering, 
terrorist financing or proliferation financing involved.  
 
(7) A beneficiary virtual assets service provider shall, upon request from the Agency 
or Commission, provide complete originating information and complete beneficiary 
information that accompanies a transfer of virtual assets, within 3 working days of receiving 
the request, excluding the date on which the request is made.  
 
(8) A beneficiary virtual assets service provider shall keep records of complete 
originating information and complete beneficiary information which accompanies each 
transfer of virtual assets, for at least 5 years 
 
 
(a) from the date the transfer was completed, in the case of a transfer to a 
beneficiary that does not hold an account; and  
 
 
(b) from the date that the business relationship ended, in the case of a transfer to a 
beneficiary that holds an account.  
 
(9) A person who fails to comply with a provision of this section commits an offence 
and is liable to be proceeded against under section 27 (4) of the Act. 
 
Intermediary virtual assets service provider 
41E. (1) This section applies where the intermediary virtual assets service provider is 
situated within the Virgin Islands. 
 
 
(2) An intermediary virtual assets service provider shall 
 
 
(a) ensure that any information it receives on the originator and the beneficiary that 
accompanies a transfer of virtual assets is kept with that transfer; and  
 
 
(b) put effective procedures in place for the detection of virtual assets transfers that 
lack complete originator information and complete beneficiary information, 
consistent with straight-through processing.    
 
 
(3) Where the intermediary virtual assets service provider becomes aware that the 
complete originator information or complete beneficiary information is missing or incomplete 
 
93 
 
when receiving transfers of funds, the intermediary virtual assets service provider shall, relying 
on its risk-based policies and procedures, determine whether to 
 
 
(a) execute, reject or suspend the transfer; and 
 
 
(b) undertake an appropriate follow-up action which may include 
 (i) requesting the missing information from the originating virtual assets 
service provider; 
(ii) rejecting future transfers of funds from the originating virtual assets service 
provider; 
(iii) restrict or terminate its relationship with the originating virtual assets 
service provider; and 
(iv) determining whether the transfer of virtual assets or any related transaction 
should be reported to the Agency as a suspicious transaction or activity.  
 
 
(4) An intermediary virtual assets service provider shall, upon request from the Agency 
or Commission, provide complete originating information and complete beneficiary information 
that accompanies a transfer of virtual assets, within 3 days working days of receiving the request, 
excluding the date on which the request is made.  
 
 
(5) An intermediary virtual assets service provider shall, for at least 5 years from the 
date of the transfer, keep records of complete originating information and complete beneficiary 
information which accompanies each transfer of virtual assets.  
 
Virtual assets service provider that holds both payer and payee side of transfer 
41F. Where a virtual assets service provider that holds or controls both the originator and 
the beneficiary side of a transfer of virtual assets, that virtual assets service provider shall 
 
 
(a) consider the information from both the originator and beneficiary sides of the 
transfer of funds in order to determine whether a suspicious activity report 
should be filed; and  
 
 
(b) file a suspicious activity report in any country affected by the suspicious 
transfer of virtual assets, and make relevant transaction information available 
to the Agency and the relevant competent authority of any country affected by 
the suspicious transfer.” 
 
Section 42 amended 
46. Section 42 of the principal Code of Practice is amended by deleting subsection (2) and 
substituting the following subsection 
“(2) A record of a business relationship or transaction, any attempt to establish a 
business relationship or transaction which has not been completed, or any other matter 
required to be maintained under the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 
2020, and this Code shall, unless otherwise prescribed, be maintained in a form that it can 
be 
(a)  easily retrievable; and 
 
94 
 
(b) promptly provided when requested by the Agency, the Commission, a law 
enforcement agency or other person entitled to access them.” 
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 42 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in paragraph (i) 
(i) in the first sentence, by deleting the words “FATF Recommendation 10 
provides” and substituting the words, “FATF Recommendations 
provide”; and  
(ii) in the second sentence, by inserting after the words “terrorist 
financing”, the words “, proliferation financing”; 
(b) 
in paragraph (ii) 
(i) by deleting the words “within a reasonable period” wherever they 
appear in the paragraph and substituting the word, “promptly”; and 
(ii) by deleting the last sentence; and 
 (c) 
in paragraph (iii) 
(i) by deleting the first 2 sentences and substituting the following sentences 
 
“The minimum retention period of records required under the AMLR 
and this Code is 5 years. However, there may be circumstances where 
it becomes necessary to retain records for longer periods extending 
beyond the prescribed minimum.”; and  
(ii) by deleting the last sentence of the paragraph.  
Section 43 revoked 
47. Section 43 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.   
 
Section 44 amended 
48. Section 44(c) of the principal Code of Practice is amended by deleting the word “monetary”. 
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 44 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(i) 
Every entity or professional must ensure that sufficient information is 
obtained with respect to every transaction involving or relating to a customer 
and other persons connected therewith as may be appropriate. Different 
transactions may present different levels of risk which in turn may obligate or 
necessitate the taking and maintaining of records additional to those outlined 
in section 44.  This is in line with an entity’s or professional’s customer due 
diligence process, which requires varying types of information and 
documentation, depending on the risks present with respect to any particular 
transaction.  An entity or professional must maintain sufficient, clear and 
 
95 
 
reliable records of the information and documentation and the action taken 
with respect to each transaction that can be readily accessed whenever 
required.”; and  
(b) in paragraph (ii), in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the words “with 
a customer”, the words “or the level of ML/TF and PF risk posed by a 
customer”. 
 
Section 45 amended 
49. Section 45 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
(i)  in the opening paragraph, by inserting after the words “terrorist financing”, the 
words “, proliferation financing”;  
(ii) in paragraph (a), by inserting after the words “customer due diligence,”, the 
words “undertaking risk assessments,”;  
(iii) in paragraph (g), by deleting the word “and” at the end of the paragraph;  
(iv) in paragraph (h), by deleting the full-stop at the end of the paragraph and 
substituting the words “and customers; and”; and  
(v) by inserting after paragraph (h), the following new paragraph 
“(i) any other records that may be required to be maintained pursuant to the 
provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations, Revised Edition 
2020, and this Code.”;  
(b) in subsection (2)(b) 
(i)  by deleting the words “subsection (1)(e), (f), (g) and (h),” and substituting the 
words, “subsection (1)(b), (e), (f), (g) and (h),”; and 
(ii) by deleting the words “relationship ended” and substituting the words, 
“relationship was terminated”; 
(c) in subsection (3), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist financing” 
and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing”; and 
(d) in subsection (4)(b), by inserting after the words “having regard to”, the words “to 
the risks presented by”. 
   
The Explanation to section 45 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in paragraph (i), by inserting after the words “terrorist financing”, the words 
“, proliferation financing”; and 
(b) in paragraph (iv), by deleting the first sentence and substituting the following 
sentence  
 
96 
 
“(iv) 
Where an entity that is a financial institution maintains a business 
relationship relative to an account that is dormant, it is required to continue to 
maintain records with respect to that account until the business relationship is 
terminated in accordance with regulation 10 (1) of the AMLR.”.  
 
 
 
 
 
Section 46 amended 
50. Section 46 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in subsections 1(b) and 2(b), by 
deleting the words “money laundering or terrorist financing” and respectively substituting the 
words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing”.   
 
The Explanation to section 46 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in 
paragraph (iii), by inserting at the end of the last sentence, before the full-stop, the 
words, “, allowing the entity or professional to have access to the records, 
whenever necessary”.  
 
 
 
Section 47 amended 
51. Section 47 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a)  in subsection (1)(a), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing”;  
(b)  in subsections (2) and (3), by deleting the words “anti-money laundering and 
terrorist financing” and respectively substituting the words, “anti-money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”;  
(c) in subsection (4), by deleting paragraph (c) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(c) an entity that is a fund or private investment fund registered or recognised under 
the Securities and Investment Business Act, Revised Edition 2020, or an 
approved or incubator fund under the Securities and Investment Business 
(Incubator and Approved Funds) Regulations, Revised Edition 2020; or”; and 
(d) in subsection (5)(b)(i), by deleting the words, “a restricted Class II or Class III trust 
licence” and substituting the words, “a restricted Class II trust licence or restricted 
Class III licence”. 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 47 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in paragraphs (i) and (ii), by deleting the words, “money laundering and 
terrorist financing” and respectively substituting the words, “money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”; and 
(b) in paragraph (iv), by inserting after the words “overseas training,” the words, 
“virtual training, webinars,”. 
 
97 
 
 
Section 48 amended 
52. Section 48(2)(b) and (d) of the principal Code of Practice is amended, by deleting the words 
“money laundering and terrorist financing” and respectively substituting the words, “money 
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing”.  
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 48 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in paragraph (ii), in the closing paragraph, by inserting after the words “face 
to face arrangement” the words, “or through virtual means”; and 
(b) in paragraph (iii), by deleting the second sentence and substituting the 
following sentence  
“For the purposes of this Part of the Code and the AMLR, training or re-
training must be afforded at least once every year, and entities or professionals 
that operate in sectors that are most vulnerable to money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing activities may undertake training on a 
more frequent basis.” 
 
 
 
Section 49 amended 
53. Section 49 of the Code of Practice is amended  
(a) by revoking subsection (2) and substituting the following subsection 
 “(2)  Where an entity or a professional 
(a) terminates or dismisses an employee on account of the employee’s 
competence with respect to compliance with anti-money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing requirements,  
(b)  terminates, dismisses or disciplines an employee on account of his 
or her probity, or  
(c) discovers, after an employee had ceased to be an employee of the 
entity or professional (whether through resignation, retirement, 
transfer, exchange, or otherwise), that the employee had, while 
employed with the entity or professional, been engaged in an 
activity which raises questions about the employee’s probity,  
the entity or professional, as the case may be, shall, within 7 days of the occurrence 
or discovery of the event mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), notify in writing 
the Commission (in the case of entities or professionals regulated by the 
Commission), or the Agency (in the case of entities or professionals supervised by 
the Agency), of that fact providing the name and address of the employee or former 
employee and detailed information as would enable the Commission or the Agency 
to fully understand the circumstances and reason for the occurrence of the event.”; 
(b) by inserting after subsection (2), the following new subsections 
 
98 
 
 (2A) The Commission or the Agency shall establish a system for recording and 
maintaining the names of employees or former employees of an entity or a 
professional in relation to whom a notification has been made under subsection (2). 
 (2B) The Commission or the Agency may use the system established under 
subsection (2A), including the names recorded or maintained in the system, for 
purposes of 
(a) in the case of the Commission, discharging its functions under the 
Financial Services Commission Act, Revised Edition 2020, or any 
other enactment;  
(b) in the case of the Agency, discharging its functions under the 
Financial Investigation Agency Act, Revised Edition 2020; or 
(c) in any other case, ensuring that appropriate steps are taken to prevent 
an employee or a former employee who has been the subject of a 
notification under subsection (2) from further engaging in any 
conduct or activity that led to his or her name being notified to the 
Commission or the Agency.  
 (2C) Subsection (2B)(c) is without prejudice to an employee’s or former 
employee’s right, at any time, to make representations to the Commission or the 
Agency regarding 
(a) the circumstances and reason for the termination of, or dismissal from, his 
or her employment, or the initiation of disciplinary action against him or her 
by his or her former employer; and  
(b) why his or her name should not be included in, or should be removed from, 
the system established under subsection (2A) for the recording of names of 
employees or former employees; or  
(c) in the case of a former employee to whom subsection (2) applies, why his or 
her name should be included in, or should be removed from, the system 
established under subsection (2A) for the recording of names of employees 
or former employees.  
 
 
 The Explanation to section 49 of the principal Code of Practice is deleted and substituted 
by the following Explanation 
(i) 
Competence and probity are critical to the efficient and effective functioning of an 
AML/CFT regime. Persons whose competence fall short of the desired standards after 
having been trained and whose continued employment is likely to pose potential 
AML/CFT risks, having regard to their specific area of employment, must be closely 
monitored. In addition, an employee who has questionable integrity may be willing to 
forego the AML/CFT obligations of the entity or professional or facilitate ML/TF 
activities through the entity or professional.  Where as a consequence of inadequate 
competence and integrity their employment is terminated, this must be notified 
immediately to the Commission (for entities or professionals regulated by the 
Commission) or the Agency (for entities or professionals supervised by the Agency) . An 
 
99 
 
entity or a professional must not shield such an employee by failing to notify the Agency 
or the Commission, notwithstanding any internal settlement that might have been 
reached; to do so will constitute an offence and criminal proceedings may be instituted 
against the entity or professional concerned. 
(ii) The situation may also arise where an employee commits a fraud or other offence 
or commits a breach of an entity’s or a professional’s internal control systems to engage 
in questionable transactions and then resigns, retires, or is transferred or exchanged (for 
example to or between a parent entity and a subsidiary). The later discovery of such 
conduct or activity should be reported to the Commission or Agency, as the case may be. 
This will apply to any other conduct or activity bordering on probity, irrespective of 
whether the conduct or activity was discovered whilst in employment or after the 
cessation of employee. 
(iii) The Commission and the Agency are required to establish a system in which they 
record and maintain the names of employees or former employees whose conduct or 
activity is reported to the Commission or the Agency. The system established may be in 
the form of creating a watch list or through some other mechanism. The important thing 
is that a record should exist within the Commission or the Agency of the reports made to 
it. Each report should be sufficiently detailed to enable the Commission or the Agency to 
understand and have a full appreciation of the nature and circumstances of the conduct 
or activity for which a report is made to the Commission or the Agency. The details 
provided may not necessarily be uniform across the board, but must at a minimum 
contain the date of occurrence or discovery of the event reported, the employee’s or 
former employee’s name, address, date of employment, status within the entity or 
professional as at the date or termination, suspension, dismissal, discipline, resignation, 
retirements, etc., nature of the conduct or activity, the internal control systems that were 
breached and how such systems were breached, possible oversight failures, action taken 
or being taken, to whom reports have been made, etc. This list is simply a guide and is 
not exhaustive. Each entity or professional submitting a report must include in the report 
every detail that will assist a better understanding of the subject of the report. 
(iv) Furthermore, both the Commission and the Agency have a responsibility for 
properly guarding the financial perimeter of the Territory. That means taking necessary 
steps to prevent reported employees from occupying positions of responsibility within an 
entity or a professional in the Territory where the Commission or the Agency considers 
such steps necessary and justified. This may include publishing the name of a reported 
person whose conduct or activity has resulted in a conviction, disclosing the name of a 
reported person to a judicial authority or law enforcement agency, or simply sharing 
with a competent authority or licensee the facts relative to an employee or former 
employee as reported to the Commission or the Agency.  
(v) 
However, consideration must be given to an employee’s or former employee’s right 
to due process. Ideally, where the Commission or the Agency is aware of the employee’s 
or former employee’s presence in the Territory at the time he or she is reported, he or 
she should be notified of the report and invited to make such representation to the 
Commission or the Agency, as the case may be, as he or she deems fit. The Commission 
or Agency may, after receipt and proper consideration of any representation made, 
determine whether to include the employee’s or former employee’s name as provided 
 
100 
 
under section 49(2A). If, on the other hand, the employee or former employee cannot be 
reached, that does not prevent him or her from making representation to the Commission 
or Agency at any time.  
(vi) These steps shall, however, not prevent the Commission or Agency from including 
a reported employee’s or former employee’s name on the system (list) established and 
maintained by the employer. The Commission or Agency may, at any time after reviewing 
an employee’s or former employee’s representation, remove his or her name from the 
system if it determines that such removal is justified.”  
 
 
Section 50 amended 
54. Section 50 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
 (i) by inserting after the words “The Agency and the Commission shall”, the words 
“, as far as possible, jointly”; and  
(ii) by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist financing” and 
substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing”;  
(b) in subsection (2) 
 (i) in paragraph (a), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing”;  
(ii) in paragraph (b), by inserting after the words “Anti-terrorism (Financial and 
Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order,” the words, “Counter-Terrorism 
Act, No. 33 of 2021, Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act, No. 20 of 2021”; 
and 
(iii) in paragraph (d), by deleting the words “money laundering or terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing or 
proliferation financing”; 
(c) in subsection (3) 
 (i) by deleting paragraph (b), and substituting the following paragraph 
“(b) Her Majesty’s Customs;”;  
(ii) by deleting paragraph (f) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(f) the BVI Airports Authority;”; 
(iii) by deleting paragraph (h) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(h) the Virgin Islands Shipping Registry;”; 
(iv) by deleting paragraph (i) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(i) the Department of Trade and Consumer Affairs”;  
 
101 
 
(v) in paragraph (j) by deleting the words, “money laundering and terrorist 
financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 50 of the Code of Practice is amended 
(a) 
in the third sentence, by inserting after the words “the 2002 Order” the 
words, “, PFPA, CTA”; and  
(b) 
in the fourth sentence, by deleting the words, “money laundering and 
terrorist financing” and substituting the words “money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing”.  
 
 
 
Section 51 amended  
55. Section 51(2)(a) and (b) of the principal Code of Practice is amended, by deleting the words 
“money laundering and terrorist financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing”.  
 
The Explanation to section 51 of the principal Code of Practice is amended in paragraphs 
(i) and (ii), by deleting the words “money laundering and terrorist financing” and 
substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing”. 
Section 52 revoked 
56. Section 52 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.  
 
Section 53 amended 
57. Section 53 of the principal Code of Practice is amended 
(a) in subsection (1) 
 (i) by deleting the words, “that is regulated in the Virgin Islands” and substituting 
the words, “or a professional”; and 
(ii) by inserting after the word “subsidiaries”, wherever it appears, the word, “, 
agencies”;  
(b) in subsection (1A) 
 (i) by inserting after the words “An entity”, the words “or a professional”;  
(ii) by inserting after the word “subsidiaries”, the word “, agencies”; and  
(iii) by deleting the words “anti-money laundering and terrorist financing” and 
substituting the words, “anti-money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing”;  
(c) in subsection (2) 
 
102 
 
 (i) by inserting after the words “the entity’s”, the words “or professional’s”;  
(ii) by inserting after the word “subsidiaries”, wherever it appears, the word “, 
agencies”; and  
 (iii) by inserting after the words “the entity”, the words “or professional”;  
(d) in subsection (3) 
 (i) by inserting after the words “an entity”, the words “or a professional”;  
 (ii) by inserting after the word “subsidiaries”, wherever it appears, the word “, 
agencies”;  
(e) by deleting subsection (3A) and substituting the following subsection 
“(3A) An entity or a professional that has branches, subsidiaries, agencies or 
representative offices operating in foreign jurisdictions shall notify the Agency (in 
the case of an entity or a professional supervised by the Agency) or the Commission 
(in the case of an entity or a professional licensed by the Commission) in writing if 
any of the entity’s or professional’s branches, subsidiaries, agencies or 
representative offices is unable to observe appropriate anti-money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing measures on account of the fact that 
such observance is prohibited by the laws, policies or other measures of the foreign 
jurisdiction in which it operates.”; and 
(f) by deleting subsection (3B) and substituting the following subsection 
“(3B) Where a notification is provided pursuant to subsection (3A), the entity or 
professional shall apply appropriate additional measures to manage the risks related 
to the operation of its or his or her branches, subsidiaries, agencies or representative 
offices in that foreign jurisdiction.”.  
 
 
 
 
 
The Explanation to section 53 of the principal Code or Practice is amended 
(a) 
in the first sentence of the paragraph, by inserting after the words “An 
entity”, the words “or a professional”;  
(b) 
by inserting after the word “entity’s”, wherever it appears in the paragraph, 
the words “or professional’s”; and  
(c) 
by inserting after the words “the entity”, wherever they appear, the words 
“or professional”.  
 
 
 
Section 53A inserted 
58. The principal Code of Practice is amended by inserting after section 53, the following new 
section 
“Financial groups 
53A. A financial group shall implement group wide policies, procedures and controls 
against money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing which are 
 
103 
 
applicable to all branches and subsidiaries of the financial group, and these policies and 
procedures shall include 
(a) policies, procedures and controls required under Part II (Establishing Internal 
Control Systems), Part III (Establishing Customer Due Diligence Measures), 
Part VI (Record Keeping Requirements) and Part VII (Employee Training);  
(b) policies and procedures for sharing information required for the purposes of 
customer due diligence and money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing risk management;  
(c) the provision, at group-level compliance, audit and AML/CFT functions, of 
customer, account and transaction information from branches and subsidiaries 
when necessary for AML/CFT purposes; and  
(d) adequate safeguards on confidentiality and use of information exchanged.”. 
 
Section 54 amended 
59. Section 54 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked and substituted by the following 
section 
“Application of counter-measures 
54. (1) This section applies in relation to 
(a) the Commission only with regard to entities and professionals that are 
licensed or supervised by the Commission; and  
(b) the Agency only with regard to entities and professionals that are supervised 
by the Agency for compliance with the laws relating to money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing.   
 
(1A) Where the FATF, CFATF or any other similar organisation advises that 
measures should be undertaken in relation to a jurisdiction, or the Agency or the 
Commission forms the opinion that a jurisdiction with which the Virgin Islands engages in 
business or the provision of any service through an entity or a professional poses a 
significant money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing risk, the Agency 
or the Commission may 
(a) issue advisories advising entities and professionals of the weaknesses in the 
AML/CFT system of the jurisdiction and that transactions with individuals, 
legal persons and legal arrangements in the jurisdiction may run the risk of 
money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing; or  
(b) require entities and professionals to apply counter-measures, proportionate 
to the risks, in relation to that jurisdiction.   
 
  (2) The counter-measures referred to in subsection (1) in relation to a 
jurisdiction may include requiring entities and professionals to undertake any of the 
following 
(a) apply stringent requirements for the identification and verification of 
applicants for business or customers in the jurisdiction, including 
 
104 
 
requirements for the establishment of beneficial owners of legal persons and 
legal arrangements before any business relationship is established; 
(b) enhance reporting mechanisms or systematic reporting of financial 
transactions on the basis that such transactions with the jurisdiction are more 
likely to be suspicious; 
(c) limit business relationships or financial transactions with the jurisdiction or 
persons within that jurisdiction; and 
(d) discontinue from engaging in any kind of business relationship emanating 
from or relating to such jurisdiction. 
 
(3) Where the Agency or the Commission requires the application of a counter-
measure pursuant to subsection (1), an entity or a professional that contravenes or fails to 
comply with the counter-measure commits an offence and is liable to be proceeded against 
under section 27(4) of the Act. 
 
[Explanation: 
This section seeks to implement the FATF Recommendation in relation to jurisdictions that 
do not apply or insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations and/or have weaknesses 
in their AML/CFT systems. The FATF, CFATF and/or other international organisation 
with similar functions issue advisories in relation to jurisdictions that do not apply or 
insufficiently apply FATF Recommendations.  These advisories require entities and 
professionals to apply particular counter measures when engaging in business with 
customers and counterparts in those jurisdictions.  Entities and professionals must comply 
with the advisories when issued.  In addition, the Commission based on their own 
evaluation, or receiving input from other authorities responsible for AML/CFT in the 
Territory, may also deem that certain jurisdictions pose significant ML/TF risks and 
require entities and professionals to undertake certain counter measures in engaging in 
business with the named jurisdictions.  The essence of such measures is simply to protect 
entities and professionals against dealings in possible money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing activities with persons (legal or natural) in such 
jurisdictions, in addition to assuring the reputation of the Virgin Islands. Accordingly, it is 
expected that entities and professionals will be vigilant and ensure that the jurisdictions 
with or in which they form business relationships have in place AML/CFT measures; where 
these are considered insufficient, an entity or a professional must, as a first step, employ 
enhanced customer due diligence measures to identify and verify the relevant applicant for 
business or customer.]” 
 
 
Section 55 amended  
60. Section 55(1) of the principal Code of Practice is amended in the opening paragraph, by 
inserting after the words “submitted in writing”, the words “(including in electronic form)”. 
 
Section 56 amended 
 
105 
 
61. Section 56(1) of the principal Code of Practice is amended, by deleting the words, “money 
laundering or terrorist financing” and substituting the words, “money laundering, terrorist 
financing or proliferation financing”.  
 
Schedule 1 revoked and substituted 
62. Schedule 1 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked and substituted by the following 
Schedule 
 
“SCHEDULE 1 
[Section 4A (8)] 
BEST PRACTICES FOR NPOs 
A. 
Introduction 
It is generally recognised globally that the set-up and operation of NPOs are susceptible to 
misuse for money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing purposes. 
While taking on different forms (such as association, organisation, foundation, corporation, 
committee for fund raising or community service, limited guarantee company and 
unlimited company, all of which may be formed pursuant to the BVI Business Companies 
Act or some other enabling enactment) to provide services for charitable, educational, 
cultural, religious, community, social and fraternal purposes, recent developments have 
shown that NPOs have become convenient conduits for facilitating the laundering of ill-
gotten gains and for providing funding to organisations that carry out or facilitate the 
carrying out of terrorist activities, as a result of the trust placed in them. Accordingly, it is 
essential that every NPO exercises vigilance in its dealings with persons who present 
themselves or appear to be friends of and benevolent givers of donations for general or 
specific activities. 
It is therefore significant that every NPO understands and appreciates its objectives and 
adopt appropriate measures designed to protect it from misuse for money laundering, 
terrorist or other financial criminal activities. These Best Practices are not designed to 
prevent or discourage NPOs from sourcing and accepting funds from reliable and 
legitimate sources. Rather, they are designed to assist NPOs to better insulate themselves 
against abuse for money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing and other 
financial crime activities. 
In this vein, NPOs should note that there may be business relationships or transactions their 
organisations may be concerned with which their managers may not be fully aware or have 
full appreciation of. The same may apply to donors who give out in good faith (whether 
through solicitation or otherwise), just to have their donations channelled for unlawful or 
other unintended purposes. Thus it becomes incumbent on everyone (NPOs, their 
employees, donors and supervisors or regulators) to guard the perimeter against abuse and 
misuse. 
B. 
Guiding Principles 
 
106 
 
These Best Practices are guided by the following principles  
1. 
NPOs will be encouraged to promote, encourage and safeguard within the context 
of the laws of the Virgin Islands the practice of charitable giving and the strong and 
diversified community of institutions through which they operate. 
2. 
The effective oversight of NPOs and their activities is a cooperative undertaking 
which requires the effective participation of the Agency, Commission, 
Government, charity supporters (donors and other philanthropic persons) and the 
persons whom NPOs serve. 
3. 
The Agency (as supervisor or any other body replacing the Agency as such) and 
NPOs must at all times seek to promote transparency and accountability and, more 
broadly, common social welfare and security goals with respect to the operations 
of the NPOs. 
4. 
While small NPOs by their operations do not engage in raising significant amounts 
of money in excess of $50,000 per annum from private and public sources or which 
merely concentrate on redistributing resources among their members may not pose 
serious threats to money laundering, terrorist financing or proliferation financing 
activity and therefore not require regular and enhanced oversight, they must 
recognise that they are susceptible to unlawful laundering and financing activity 
and adopt appropriate measures to protect themselves and the reputation of the 
Virgin Islands. 
5. 
In particular, NPOs must establish transparency, accountability and probity in the 
manner in which they collect, transmit or distribute funds. 
6. 
All NPOs must recognise that no charitable endeavour must be undertaken that 
directly or indirectly supports money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation 
financing or other financial crime, including actions that may serve to induce or 
compensate for participation in such activity. 
7. 
While NPOs are (until otherwise replaced by an overriding enactment) supervised 
by the Agency pursuant to section 5C(2) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 
Revised Edition 2020, they are encouraged to develop, maintain and strengthen 
mechanisms for self-regulation as a significant means of decreasing the risks 
associated with money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing and 
other financial crimes. 
 
C. 
Adopting Preventive Measures 
 
The measures outlined hereunder must be viewed as supplementing the provisions of the Code and 
are not designed to derogate from the intent, objectives or obligations of the Code. 
(a) 
NPOs must adopt measures that ensure transparency in their financial dealings. This 
must take into account the nature, volume and complexity of, as well as the risk that may 
be associated with, the financial dealings. In this respect, NPOs must, to the extent 
feasible and necessary, observe the following guidelines  
 
107 
 
(i) 
prepare and maintain full and accurate programme budgets that reflect all 
programme expenses, including recording the identities of recipients and how funds 
are utilised; 
(ii) 
adopt and maintain a system of independent auditing as a means of ensuring that 
accounts accurately reflect the reality of finances; and 
(iii) 
maintain registered bank accounts in which to keep funds and to utilise formal 
channels for transferring funds, whether locally or overseas, and perform other 
financial transactions. 
(b) 
It is essential that every NPO adopts appropriate policies and procedures which ensure 
the adequate verification of their activities, especially where they operate foreign 
activities. This aids the process of determining whether planned programmes are being 
implemented as intended. The following guidelines must therefore be observed   
(i) 
every solicitation for a donation must accurately and transparently inform donors 
the purpose and intent for which the donation is being collected; 
(ii) 
funds collected through solicitation and funds received through unsolicited 
donations must be utilised for the purpose for which they are collected or received; 
(iii) 
in order to ensure that funds are applied for the benefit of intended beneficiaries, 
the following must be carefully considered   
 whether the programme or project for which funds are provided have in 
fact been carried out; 
 whether the intended beneficiaries exist; 
 whether the intended beneficiaries have received the funds meant for 
them; and 
 whether all the funds, assets and premises have been fully accounted 
for; 
(iv) 
where, having regard to the nature, size and complexity of and risk associated with 
a programme or project, it becomes necessary to conduct direct field audits, this 
must be carried out in order to guard against malfeasance and detect any 
misdirection of funds; and 
(v) 
where funds are delivered to an overseas location, appropriate measures must be 
adopted to account for the funds and make a determination as regards their use. 
(c) 
Central to the efficient and effective functioning of an NPO is the establishment of a 
robust administrative machinery that ensures the appropriate and routine 
documentation of administrative, managerial, compliance and policy development and 
control measures with respect to the operations of the organisation. Accordingly, the 
following guidelines must be observed    
(i) 
directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to perform such 
functions) must act with due diligence and ensure that the organisation functions 
and operates ethically; 
 
108 
 
(ii) 
directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to perform such 
functions) need to know the persons acting in the name of the organisation (such as 
executive directors, diplomats, fiduciaries and those with signing authority on 
behalf of the organisation); 
(iii) 
directors and/or managers (or those appointed or deputed to perform such 
functions) must exercise due care, diligence and probity and, adopt where 
necessary, proactive verification measures to ensure that their partner organisations 
and those to which they provide funding, services or material support are not being 
penetrated or manipulated by criminal groups, including terrorists; 
(iv) 
the directors and/or managers (or persons appointed or deputed to perform such 
functions) have responsibilities to   
 their organisation and its members to act honestly and with vigilance to 
ensure the financial health of the organisation; 
 their organisation and its members to diligently dedicate their service to the 
mandate(s) of the organisation; 
 the persons, such as donors, clients and suppliers, with whom the 
organisation interacts;  
 the Agency which has supervisory responsibility over the organisation; and  
 the persons, including the Government, who provide donations or other 
forms of financial assistance to the organisation, whether on a regular basis 
or otherwise; 
(v) 
where an NPO functions with a board of directors, the board must  
 have in place adequate measures to positively identify every board member, 
both executive and non-executive; 
 meet on a reasonably periodic basis, keep records of its proceedings 
(including the decisions taken); 
 have in place appropriate formal arrangements regarding the manner in 
which appointments to the board are effected and how board members may 
be removed; 
 adopt appropriate measures to ensure the conduct of an annual independent 
review of the finances and accounts of the organisation; 
 adopt policies and procedures which ensure appropriate financial controls 
over programme spending, including programmes that are undertaken 
through agreements with other organisations; 
 ensure that there is an appropriate balance between spending on direct 
programme delivery and administration; and 
 ensure that there are appropriate policies and procedures to prevent the use 
of the organisation’s facilities or assets to support or facilitate money 
 
109 
 
laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing or other financial 
crime.” 
Schedule 2 revoked 
63. Schedule 2 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked.  
Schedule 4 revoked and substituted  
64. Schedule 4 of the principal Code of Practice is revoked and substituted by the following 
Schedule 
“SCHEDULE 4 
[Section 57 (1)] 
OFFENCES AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES 
COLUMN 1 
Section of the Code 
creating offence. 
COLUMN 2 
General nature of offence. 
COLUMN 3 
Penalty 
(Corporate 
body) 
COLUMN 4 
Penalty 
(Individual) 
4A (3), (5), (6) and 
(8)  
 
Failure to comply with 
requirements of subsection (1), 
or carry out customer due 
diligence and record keeping 
measures, or accepting 
donations linked to money 
laundering, terrorist financing 
or proliferation financing 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
11 
Failure to comply with the 
requirements of section 11 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
12 
Failure to carry out money 
laundering, terrorist financing 
and proliferation financing risk 
assessments 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
14 
Failure to comply with the 
measures required under section 
14 (2)  
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
15 
Failure by an employee to 
comply with the requirements 
under section 15 
 
- 
$75,000 
 
16 (3) 
Failure to comply with the 
prescribed obligations in 
relation to a Reporting Officer 
 
$65,000 
 
$60,000 
 
18 (1) 
Failure by an employee to 
report a suspicious activity or 
transaction 
- 
$80,000 
 
 
110 
 
 
19 (2), (4) and (5) 
 
Failure to engage in or 
undertake customer due 
diligence, or additional 
customer due diligence in the 
case of a trustee of a trust or a 
legal person 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
20 
Failure to engage in enhanced 
customer due diligence 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
21 
Failure to undertake ongoing 
customer due diligence  
 
$75,000 
 
$70,000 
 
29 (2) and (4) 
 
Failure to adopt relevant 
measures or additional 
measures or checks in non-face 
to face relationships 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
30 (1)  
Failure to ensure proper 
certification of document, or 
accepting certified document 
contrary to the section  
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
31 (2) and (5) 
 
Failure to record an 
introduction of an applicant for 
business or a customer, or to 
ensure that an introducer 
reviews and maintains customer 
due diligence information as 
required 
 
$70,000 
 
$65,000 
 
31A (4) 
 
Failure to amend or revise a 
written agreement within the 
prescribed period to comply 
with a condition stipulated in 
section 31A 
 
$100,000 
$60,000 
 
31B (1) 
 
Failure to test a business 
relationship with a third party 
 
$75,000 
 
$70,000 
 
31B (5) 
Failure to prepare a report of 
testing of business relationship 
with a third party or to provide 
copy of report to the 
Commission 
$70,000 
 
$65,000 
 
 
111 
 
 
32 
Failure to take post verification 
steps required under the section 
 
$65,000 
 
$60,000 
 
36 
Failure by a correspondent bank 
to satisfy itself regarding 
necessary customer due 
diligence measures required to 
be undertaken by a respondent 
bank 
 
$100,000 
 
$100,000 
 
39 (1) and (3) 
 
Failure to ensure transfer of 
funds accompanied by full 
originator information and full 
beneficiary information, or to 
verify full originator 
information  
 
$80,000 
 
$75,000 
 
39 (6)  
 
Failure to keep records of full 
originator information on payer 
and full beneficiary information 
on the payee 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
41 (2) and (5) 
 
Failure to keep information 
received on payer with the 
transfer of funds, or to provide 
upon request within the 
specified time information on 
payer that the intermediary 
payment service provider has 
received 
 
$80,000 
 
$75,000 
 
41 (6) 
 
Failure to keep records of 
information on payer and the 
payee for the specified period 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
42 (2) 
 
Failure to maintain records in 
the required form 
 
$60,000 
 
$60,000 
 
44 
 
Failure to maintain transaction 
records 
 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
46 (2) 
Entering into an outsourcing 
agreement for the retention of 
records whereby access to such 
records is impeded by 
$100,000 
 
$80,000 
 
 
112 
 
confidentiality or data 
protection restrictions, or the 
outsourcing prevents or 
impedes the implementation of 
the Anti-money Laundering 
Regulations Revised Edition 
2020, this Code or other 
enactment relating to money 
laundering, terrorist financing 
or proliferation financing 
47 (1) 
Failure to train employees 
 
$80,000 
 
$75,000 
 
48 (1) and (2) 
 
Failure to provide training at 
appropriate frequencies or to 
the desired level and standard 
 
$80,000 
 
$75,000 
 
55 (1) and (2) 
Failure to make or submit a 
report in the proper form 
 
$60,000 
 
$60,000 
 
Miscellaneous 
The breach of or non-
compliance with any provision 
for which a penalty is not 
specifically provided. 
$60,000 
$60,000” 
 
Issued by the Financial Services Commission this 26th day of August, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Sgd.) Kenneth Baker 
Managing Director/CEO 
Financial Services Commission 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
