cfatf-plen-xliv-ps-nov2016 
Public Statement 
November 9, 2016 
 
 
CFATF - Public Statement – Providenciales, Turks and Caicos, November 9th, 2016 
 
Providenciales, Turks and Caicos Islands 9th  November, 2016 - The Caribbean Financial Action 
Task Force (CFATF) is an organisation of twenty-seven jurisdictions of the Caribbean Basin 
Region, which have agreed to implement the international standards for Anti-money Laundering 
and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT), Financial Action Task Force 
Recommendations (FATF Recommendations). In order to protect the international financial system 
from money laundering and financing of terrorism (ML/FT) risks and to encourage greater 
compliance with the AML/CFT standards, the CFATF identified jurisdictions that have strategic 
deficiencies and works with them to address those deficiencies that pose a risk to the international 
financial system. 
 
 
Jurisdiction with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies that has not made sufficient progress in 
addressing the deficiencies or has not complied with the Action Plan developed with the 
CFATF to address these deficiencies. The CFATF calls on its members to consider the risks 
arising from the deficiencies associated with each jurisdiction, as described below. 
 
 
Haiti 
 
The CFATF undertook a High Level Mission (HLM) to the Republic of Haiti on Monday 27th 
of April 2015. Thereinafter, a letter from the CFATF Chair, was sent to Haiti on the 17th of 
September 2015, making reference that Haiti would remain in the second stage of enhanced of 
follow-up but would need to demonstrate progress. At the CFATF Plenary in November 2015, 
Haiti demonstrated some progress on non-legislative measures.  Plenary determined that Haiti 
should remain in the status quo and demonstrate to the May 2016 Plenary substantial compliance 
with both non-legislative and legislative requirements. At the CFATF Plenary in June 2016, Haiti 
demonstrated that had taken steps towards improving its AML/CFT compliance regime with 
non-legislative actions, including providing training to FIU, Police officers, Prosecutors and 
Magistrates; and taking steps to join the Egmont Group. However, Plenary was not satisfied with 
the pace of reforms and agreed to the issuance of a public statement against Haiti asking members 
to consider the risk posed by Haiti. Plenary also agreed that Haiti must make sufficient progress 
and demonstrate such progress by the November 2016 Plenary. At the CFATF Plenary in 
November 2016, Haiti demonstrated that sufficient progress has been made through: the 
amended Law Sanctioning Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (LSMLTF) by the 
Chamber of Deputies on September 9th, 2016 and by the Senate on September 28th, 2016; the 
enactment of the new UCREF law seeking to establish the l’Unité Centrale de Renseignements 
Financiers (Central Financial Intelligence Unit) (UCREF) as an autonomous administrative 
financial intelligence unit; and the publication in the National Gazette of the Decree establishing 
procedures for the implementation of measures aimed at freezing funds and other assets 
connected with the financing of terrorism.  
 
Haiti is encouraged to continue the reform process including the passage of the legislative 
framework and continue addressing its AML/CFT deficiencies.  
 
Haiti and the CFATF should continue to work together to ensure that Haiti’s reform process is 
completed, by addressing its remaining deficiencies and continue implementing its Action Plan. 
 
 
 
cfatf-plen-xliv-a-iv  
   
November 10, 2016 
 
 
     |       
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Jurisdiction with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies that has made significant progress in 
addressing its deficiencies.  
 
 
Suriname 
 
The CFATF acknowledges the significant progress made by Suriname in improving its 
AML/CFT regime and notes that Suriname has established the legal and regulatory framework 
to meet its commitments in its agreed Action Plan regarding the strategic deficiencies that the 
CFATF had identified. Suriname is encouraged to continue the reform process and CFATF 
ICRG has agreed that Suriname has met the criteria to enter into the process to exit CFATF 
ICRG.  
 
 
Jurisdiction no longer subject to the CFATF-ICRG review process.  
 
 
Guyana.  
 
Guyana was placed in the CFATF’s ICRG process in November 2011 and was publicly listed 
by the CFATF in May 2013. Since the FATF’s adoption of Guyana’s ICRG action plan in 
October 2014, Guyana has made significant progress on AML/CFT matters, including those 
items contained in the targeted review and action plan. On the basis of progress made, with 
Guyana substantially completing all its action plan items, the FATF Plenary meeting in October 
2016 decided to allow Guyana to exit the FATF ICRG process. 
 
Having made significant progress in improving its AML/CFT regime and adequately addressing 
the key AML/CFT deficiencies identified, the CFATF Plenary of November 2016 agreed that 
Guyana be removed from the CFATF ICRG process and therefore Guyana is no longer subject 
to monitoring by CFATF ICRG. 
 
 
 
 
 
