 
 
CARIBBEAN FINANCIAL 
ACTION TASK FORCE 
 
CFATF PUBLIC STATEMENT 
 
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 
25th of November – 2015 
 
© 2015 CFATF. All rights reserved. 
No reproduction or translation of this publication may be made without prior written 
permission.  Requests for permission to further disseminate reproduce or translate all or part of 
this publication should be obtained from the CFATF Secretariat at cfatf@cfatf.org 
 
 
 
 
CFATF/XLII PLEN/ICRG 
cfatf-public-statement.pdf 
November 2015 
 
CFATF - Secretariat| © 2015 CFATF. All rights reserved. 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, November 25th, 2015. - The Caribbean Financial 
Action Task Force (CFATF) is an organization of twenty seven jurisdictions of the 
Caribbean Basin Region, which has agreed to implement the international standards for 
Anti-money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) - 
Financial Action Task Force Recommendations (FATF Recommendations). In order to 
protect the international financial system from money laundering and financing of 
terrorism (ML/FT) risks and to encourage greater compliance with the AML/CFT 
standards, the CFATF identified jurisdictions that have strategic deficiencies and works 
with them to address those deficiencies that pose a risk to the international financial system. 
 
Jurisdictions with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies that have not made sufficient 
progress in addressing the deficiencies or have not complied with their Action Plan 
developed with the CFATF to address the deficiencies. The CFATF calls on its 
members to consider the risks arising from the deficiencies associated with each 
jurisdiction, as described below. 
 
Suriname 
A High Level Mission was undertaken in relation to Suriname on the 27th and 28th of 
February, 2012. Since then, there has been slow progress in the implementation of the 
necessary amendments required to become fully compliant. Therefore, in November 2014, 
the CFATF brought to the attention of its Members regarding Suriname, the significant 
strategic deficiencies in their AML/CFT regime. With a view to encouraging expeditious 
rectification of the identified strategic deficiencies, the CFATF in conjunction with 
Suriname, developed an Action Plan with identified target dates to address the strategic 
deficiencies that existed in its national architecture to combat money laundering and the 
financing of terrorism. Suriname has taken steps towards improving its AML/CFT 
compliance regime including improvements in the criminalization of money laundering 
and terrorist financing, and strengthening its customer due diligence requirements. 
However, the CFATF has determined that Suriname has failed to make sufficient progress 
in addressing its significant strategic AML/CFT deficiencies, including certain legislative 
reforms. 
If Suriname does not take specific steps by May 2016, then the CFATF will identify 
Suriname as not taking sufficient steps to address its AML/CFT deficiencies and will take 
the additional steps of calling upon its Members to consider implementing counter 
measures to protect their financial systems from the ongoing money laundering and 
terrorist financing risks emanating from Suriname, and at that time CFATF will consider 
referring Suriname to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). 
