CFATF - Public Statement – Montego Bay, Jamaica, June 8th, 2016 
 
Montego Bay, Jamaica, June 8th, 2016 - The Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF) is an organisation of 
twenty-seven jurisdictions of the Caribbean Basin Region, which have agreed to implement the international standards 
for Anti-money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT), Financial Action Task Force 
Recommendations (FATF Recommendations). In order to protect the international financial system from money 
laundering and financing of terrorism (ML/FT) risks and to encourage greater compliance with the AML/CFT 
standards, the CFATF identified jurisdictions that have strategic deficiencies and works with them to address those 
deficiencies that pose a risk to the international financial system. 
 
Jurisdiction with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the 
deficiencies or has not complied with the Action Plan developed with the CFATF to address these deficiencies. 
The CFATF calls on its members to consider the risks arising from the deficiencies associated with each 
jurisdiction, as described below. 
 
Haiti 
 
Pursuant to the mandate of the CFATF, the CFATF undertook a High Level Mission (HLM) to the Republic of 
Haiti on Monday 27th of April 2015. Thereinafter, a letter from the CFATF Chair, was sent to Haiti on the 17th of 
September 2015, making reference to the decision by the CFATF’s XLI Plenary Meeting, which was held in Port 
of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, May 27th and 28th, 2015, that Haiti would remain in the second stage of enhanced 
of follow-up, with no additional sanction measures being taken, but would need to demonstrate progress in non-
legislative measures (such as developing a freezing mechanism for terrorist assets) by November 2015. At the 
CFATF Plenary in November 2015, Haiti demonstrated some progress on non-legislative measures.  Plenary 
determined that Haiti should remain in the status quo and demonstrate to the May 2016 Plenary substantial 
compliance with both non-legislative and legislative requirements. Haiti has taken steps towards improving its 
AML/CFT compliance regime with non-legislative actions, including providing training to FIU, Police officers, 
Prosecutors and Magistrates; and taking steps to join the Egmont Group. With regard to legislative actions, some 
progress was indicated, including an update of the Central Bank Guidelines to strengthen CDD measures, which is 
in force; and drafting additional amendments to the Bill on UCREF to allow the exchange of information with 
counterpart agencies under condition of reciprocity.  
 
However, the CFATF has determined that Haiti has failed to make sufficient progress in addressing its significant 
strategic AML/CFT deficiencies, including certain legislative reforms. 
 
If Haiti does not take specific steps by November 2016, then the CFATF will further consider whether to identify 
Haiti as not taking sufficient steps to address its AML/CFT deficiencies and whether to take the additional steps of 
calling upon its Members to consider implementing counter measures to protect their financial systems from the 
ongoing money laundering and terrorist financing risks emanating from Haiti. 
 
Jurisdiction with strategic AML/CFT deficiencies that has made significant progress in addressing these 
deficiencies.  
 
Suriname 
 
The CFATF acknowledges the significant progress made by Suriname in improving its AML/CFT regime and 
notes that Suriname has established the legal and regulatory framework to meet its commitments in its agreed 
Action Plan regarding the strategic deficiencies that the CFATF had identified. Suriname and the CFATF should 
continue to work together to ensure that Suriname’s reform process is completed, by addressing its remaining 
deficiencies and continue implementing its Action Plan. 
 
 
 
