 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
Statutory Instruments 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES (ENFORCEMENT OF 
OVERSEAS CONFISCATION ORDERS) ORDER   
3 
 S.I. 42/2017   ..   in force 21 July 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
Statutory Instruments 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES (ENFORCEMENT OF 
OVERSEAS CONFISCATION ORDERS) ORDER  
3 
 S.I. 42/2017   ..   in force 21 July 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published in 2021 
On the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands  
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
 
For information contact—  
 
Attorney General’s Chambers 
Government of the Virgin Islands 
P.O. Box 242 
Road Town  
Tortola, VG1110 
   British Virgin Islands 
 
Tel: (284) 468 - 2960 
Email: agc@gov.vg   
 
 
Printed on the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands 
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
P.O. Box 1626, 5 Mar Building,  
The Valley, AI-2640, Anguilla 
Authorised Printers for this Revised Edition 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
3 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES (ENFORCEMENT OF  
OVERSEAS CONFISCATION ORDERS) ORDER 
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS 
 
REGULATION 
 
1. 
Citation 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
 
3. 
Designation of and application of the Act to countries and territories 
 
4. 
Proof of orders and judgement of court in a requesting country 
 
5. 
Evidence in relation to proceeding and orders in a requesting country 
 
6. 
Certificate as to appropriate authority of a requesting country 
 
7. 
Representation of government of a requesting country 
 
8. 
Satisfaction of confiscation order in a requesting country 
 
9. 
Currency conversion 
 
10. 
(Omitted) 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2: Modifications of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act, 1992 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3: The Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1992 as modified 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
5 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES (ENFORCEMENT OF  
OVERSEAS CONFISCATION ORDERS) ORDER - SECTION 24 
(S.I. 42/2017) 
Commencement 
[21 July 2017] 
Citation 
1. This Order may be cited as the Drug Trafficking Offences (Enforcement of 
Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order. 
Interpretation 
2. In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires— 
“appropriate authority of a requesting country” means— 
(a) the authority specified opposite that country in Schedule 1; or 
(b) where no authority is so specified the authority appearing to the court to 
be the appropriate authority of that country for the purposes of sections 
24 and 25 of the Act, and of the other provisions of the Act as applied 
under section 3; or 
(c) where there is no country specified and consequently no such authority 
specified, the authority appearing to the court to be the appropriate 
authority for the purposes of this Order; 
“a court of a requesting country” includes a court of any state or territory of a requesting 
country; 
“requesting country” means a country or territory outside the Territory; and 
“the Act” means the Drug Trafficking Offences Act, 1992. 
Designation of and application the Act to countries and territories 
3. In relation to a requesting country, the Act shall apply, subject to the 
modifications specified in Schedule 2, to external confiscation orders and to proceedings 
which have been or are to be instituted in the requesting country and may result in an 
external confiscation order being made there, and in relation to those orders and 
proceedings, the Act shall have effect as set out in Schedule 3. 
Proof of orders and judgement of court in a requesting country 
4. (1) For the purposes of sections 24 and 25 of the Act, and of the other provisions 
of the Act as applied under section 3— 
(a) any order made or judgement given by a court in a requesting country 
purporting to bear the seal of that court or to be signed by a person in 
his capacity as a judge, magistrate or officer of the court, shall be 
deemed without further proof to have been duly sealed or, as the case 
may be, to have been signed by that person; and 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
6 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) a document, duly authenticated, which purports to be a copy of any 
order made or judgement given by a court in a requesting country shall 
be deemed without further proof to be a true copy. 
 (2) A document which purports to be a copy of any order made or judgement 
given by a court in a requesting country is duly authenticated for the purpose of 
subsection 1(b) if it purports to be certified by a person in his capacity as a judge, 
magistrate or officer of the court in question or by or on behalf of the appropriate 
authority of the requesting country. 
Evidence in relation to proceedings and orders in a requesting country 
5. (1) For the purposes of section 24 and 25 of the Act, and of the other provisions 
of the Act as applied under section 3, a certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf 
of the appropriate authority of a requesting country stating— 
(a) that proceedings have been instituted and have not been concluded, or 
that proceedings are to be instituted, there; 
(b) in a case to which section 2(1)(e)(ii) of the Act, as modified by Schedule 
2, applies, that the defendant has been notified as specified in section 
2(1)(e)(ii); 
(c) that an external confiscation order is in force and is not subject to 
appeal; 
(d) that all or a certain amount of the sum payable under an external 
confiscation order remains unpaid in the requesting country, or that 
other property recoverable under an external confiscation order remains 
unrecovered there; 
(e) that any person has been notified of any proceedings in accordance with 
the law of the requesting country; or 
(f) that an order (however described) made by a court of the requesting 
country has the purpose of recovering payments or other reward 
received in connection with drug trafficking or their value, 
shall, in any proceedings in the High Court, be admissible as evidence of the facts so 
stated. 
 (2) In such proceedings a statement contained in a document, duly authenticated 
which purports to have been received in evidence or to be a copy of a document so 
received, or to set out or summarise evidence given in proceedings in a court in a 
requesting country, shall be admissible as evidence of the facts stated therein. 
 (3) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of subsection (2) if it 
purports to be certified by a person in his capacity as a judge, magistrate or officer of the 
court in a requesting country, or by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of the 
requesting country, to have been received in evidence or to be a copy of a document so 
received, or, as the case may be, to be the original document containing or summarising 
the evidence or a true copy of that document. 
 (4) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the admission of any evidence, 
whether contained in a document or otherwise, which is admissible apart from this 
section. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
7 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Certificate as to appropriate authority of a requesting country 
6. Where in relation to a requesting country no authority is specified in Schedule 1, 
a certificate made by the Governor to the effect that the authority specified therein is the 
appropriate authority for the purpose of sections 24 and 25 of the Act, and of the other 
provisions of the Act as applied by section 3 shall be sufficient evidence of that fact. 
Representation of government of a requesting country 
7. A request for assistance sent to the Governor by the appropriate authority of a 
requesting country shall, unless the contrary is shown, be deemed to constitute the 
requesting authority of the government of that country for the crown prosecution service 
or the Commissioner of Customs to act on its behalf in proceedings in the High Court 
under section 25 of the Act or any other provision of the Act as applied by section 3. 
Satisfaction of confiscation order in a requesting country 
8. (1) The amount payable under the confiscation order shall be treated as reduced 
by the value of the property so recovered, where— 
(a) a confiscation order has been made under section 5 of the Act; 
(b) a request has been sent by the Governor to the appropriate authority of a 
requesting country for assistance in enforcing that order; and 
(c) in execution of that request property is recovered in that country. 
 (2) For the purpose of this section, and without prejudice to the admissibility of 
any evidence which may be admissible apart from this subsection, a certificate 
purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of a requesting 
country stating that property has been recovered there in execution of a request by the 
Governor stating the value of the property so recovered and the date on which it was 
recovered shall, in any proceedings in a court in the Territory, be admissible as evidence 
of the facts so stated. 
Currency conversion 
9. (1) Where the value of property recovered as described in section 8(1) is 
expressed in a currency other than the currency of the United States of America, the 
extent to which the amount payable under the confiscation order is to be reduced under 
section 8(1) shall be calculated on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date 
on which the property was recovered in the requesting country concerned. 
 
(2) Where an amount of money payable or remaining to be paid under an 
external confiscation order registered in the High Court under section 25 of the Act is 
expressed in a currency other than the currency of the United States of America, for the 
purpose of an action taken in relation to that order under the Act as applied under section 
3(2) the amount shall be converted into the currency of the United States of America on 
the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of registration of the order.  
 (3) For the purposes of this section a written certificate purporting to be signed 
by a person acting in his capacity as an officer of a bank in the Territory and stating the 
exchange rate prevailing on a specified date shall be admissible as evidence of the facts 
so stated. 
10. (Omitted). 
__________ 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
8 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 1 
(Section 2) 
 
Requesting Country 
Appropriate Authority 
Afghanistan 
 
 
Algeria  
the Attorney General of Anguilla 
Anguilla 
 
Antigua and Barbuda 
 
 
 
Argentina 
 
 
 
Armenia 
 
Australia 
 
 
the Attorney General's Department 
 
Azerbaijan 
 
The Bahamas 
 
 
the Attorney General of the Bahamas 
Bahrain 
the Ministry of the Interior 
Bangladesh 
 
 
 
Barbados 
 
the Attorney General of Barbados 
Belarus  
 
 
 
Bermuda 
the Attorney General of Bermuda 
Bhutan  
 
 
Bolivia 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina  
 
Brazil  
 
 
Brunei 
 
Bulgaria 
 
 
Burkina Faso 
 
 
Burma  
 
 
Burundi 
 
Cameroon 
 
 
Canada 
the Minister of Justice or officials requesting by that 
Minister 
The Cayman Islands 
 
the Attorney General of the Cayman Islands 
Chad 
 
 
 
Chile 
 
China  
 
 
 
Columbia 
the Fascalia General de la Nacion 
Costa Rica 
 
 
 
Croatia 
 
Cyprus  
 
The Czech Republic 
 
 
Denmark 
 
 
Dominica 
 
 
 
Dominican Republic 
 
Ecuador 
Consejo Nacional de Control de Sustancias 
Estupefacientes y Psicotropicas (CONSEP) 
Egypt  
 
 
 
El Salvador 
 
 
Ethiopia 
 
 
Fiji 
 
Finland  
 
France  
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
9 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
Requesting Country 
Appropriate Authority 
Germany 
 
 
 
Ghana 
 
Gibraltar 
 
 
the Attorney General of Gibraltar 
Greece  
 
Grenada 
 
Guatemala 
 
 
Guernsey 
 
Her Majesty's Attorney General for the Bailiwick of 
Guernsey 
Guinea  
 
 
Guyana 
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs 
Honduras 
 
 
 
 
Hong Kong 
 
the Attorney General of Hong Kong 
India 
the Ministry of Home Affairs 
Iran 
 
 
 
 
Isle of Man 
Her Majesty's Attorney General for the Isle of Man 
Italy 
 
the Ministry of Justice 
Ivory Coast 
 
 
 
 
Japan 
 
 
 
 
Jersey  
Her Majesty's Attorney General for the Bailiwick of 
Jersey 
Jordan  
 
Kenya  
 
Kyrgyzstan 
 
 
Latvia  
 
Lesotho  
 
Luxembourg 
 
 
Macedonia 
 
 
 
Madagascar 
 
Malaysia 
the Inspector General of Police, Malaysia 
Mauritania 
 
 
 
Moldova 
 
 
 
Monaco 
 
Montserrat 
the Attorney General of Montserrat 
Morocco 
 
 
Myanmar 
 
 
Nepal  
 
 
Netherlands 
 
 
Afdeling International Rechtshulp 
Nicaragua 
 
Niger 
 
 
 
 
Nigeria 
the Attorney General of the Federation of the 
Republic of Nigeria 
Norway  
 
 
Oman 
 
Pakistan 
 
 
 
Panama 
the Ministry of Government and Justice 
Paraguay 
 
 
Peru 
 
 
Poland  
 
 
Portugal 
 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
10 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Requesting Country 
Appropriate Authority 
Qatar 
 
 
 
Romania 
 
The Russian Federation  
 
 
St Kitts and Nevis 
 
 
St. Lucia 
 
 
St Vincent and the Grenadines 
 
 
Saudi Arabia 
 
 
the Ministry of the Interior 
 
Senegal 
 
Seychelles 
 
 
Sierra Leone 
 
 
Slovakia 
 
 
Slovenia 
 
 
South Africa 
 
 
the Department of Foreign Affairs 
 
 
Spain 
the Ministerio de Justicia, Madrid 
Sri Lanka 
 
 
 
Sudan 
 
Suriname 
 
 
Sweden 
the Ministry for Foreign Affairs 
Switzerland 
 
 
Office federal de la police 
 
Syria 
 
Togo 
 
 
 
Trinidad and Tobago 
 
Tunisia  
 
 
Turks and Caicos Islands  
 
 
Uganda  
 
 
Ukraine 
 
United Arab Emirates 
 
 
 
United Kingdom  
the Home Office 
United Mexican States 
the Office of the Attorney General 
United States of America  
the Attorney General of the United America States 
of America 
 
Uruguay 
the Ministry of Education and Culture 
Uzbekistan 
 
 
 
Venezuela 
 
Yugoslavia 
 
 
 
Zambia 
 
Zimbabwe 
 
 
__________ 
 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
11 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
(Section 3) 
MODIFICATIONS OF THE DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT, 1992 
1. Section 1 shall be omitted. 
2. In section 2: 
(a) in subsection (1) the definition of “drug trafficking offence” shall be 
omitted; 
(b) in subsection (2) in the list of expressions and relevant provisions the 
entries for “Benefited from drug trafficking”, “Proceeds of drug 
trafficking” and “Value of proceeds of drug trafficking” shall be 
omitted, and for the words “confiscation order” there shall be 
substituted the words “External confiscation order”; 
(c) subsection (4) shall be omitted; 
(d) at the end of subsection (5) the full stop shall be omitted and there shall 
be added the words “and whether received before or after the 
commencement of the Drug Trafficking Offences Enforcement of 
Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order, 2017 and whether received in 
connection with drug trafficking carried on by the recipient or some 
other person.”; 
(e) for subsection (6)(e), there shall be substituted the following: 
“(e) Proceedings are instituted in a requesting country when— 
 (i) under the law of the requesting country concerned one of the 
steps specified in relation to that country in Column 2 of the 
Appendix hereto has been taken there in respect of alleged 
drug trafficking by the defendant, 
 (ii) where no steps have been specified in relation thereto as 
mentioned in sub paragraph (i), the defendant has been notified 
in writing in accordance with the laws of the requesting 
country that the competent authorities of that country have 
begun proceedings against him in respect of an offence, or 
 (iii) an application has been made to a court in a requesting country 
for an external confiscation order, 
and where the application of this subsection would result in there being more than one 
time for the institution of proceedings, they shall be taken to have been instituted at the 
earliest of those times.”; and 
(f) in subsection (6)(f)(ii), for the words from “payment” to the end of the 
subsection there shall be substituted the words “the recovery of all 
property liable to be recovered, or the payment of any amount due, or 
otherwise).”. 
3. In section 4: 
(a) for subsection (1) there shall be substituted the following 
subsection: 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
12 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
“ (1) In this Act, “realisable property” means, subject to 
subsection (2)— 
(a) in relation to an external confiscation order made in 
respect of specified property, the property which is 
specified in the order; and 
(b) in any other case— 
 (i) any property held by the defendant; and 
 (ii) any property held by a person to whom the 
defendant has directly or indirectly made a gift 
caught by this Act.”; 
(b) subsections (3) and (7) shall be omitted; and 
(c) in subsection (8) for the words “this Act” there shall 
be substituted the words “the Drug Trafficking 
Offences (Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation 
Orders) Order, 2017”. 
4. For section 5 there shall be substituted the following section: 
External confiscation orders 
5. 
(1) 
An order made by a court in a requesting country for the 
purpose of recovering payments or other rewards received in connection with 
drug trafficking or their value is referred to in this Act as an “external 
confiscation order”. 
 
(2) 
In subsection (1) the reference to an order includes any order, 
decree, direction or judgement, or any part thereof, however described. 
 
(3) 
A person against whom an external confiscation order has been 
made, or a person against whom proceedings which may result in an external 
confiscation order being made have been or are to be, instituted in a court in a 
requesting Country, is referred to in this Act as “the defendant”. 
5. Sections 6 to 9 shall be omitted. 
6. In section 10— 
(a) for subsection (1)(a) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(a) proceedings have been instituted against the defendant in a 
requesting country.”; 
(b) for subsection (1)(c) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(c) either an external confiscation order has been made in the 
proceedings or it appears to the Court that there are reasonable 
grounds for believing that an external confiscation order may be 
made in them.”; 
(c) for subsection (2) there shall be substituted the following subsection: 
“ (2) 
The powers conferred on the Court by sections 11 and 12 are 
also exercisable where it appears to the Court that proceedings are to be 
instituted against the defendant in a requesting country and that there are 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
13 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
reasonable grounds for believing that an external confiscation order may be made 
in them.”; 
(d) subsection (3) shall be omitted; and 
(e) in subsection (4), for the words “proceedings” to “otherwise)”, there 
shall be substituted the words “the proposed proceedings are not 
instituted”. 
7. In section 11— 
(a) for subsection (2)(a) and (b) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(a) where an application under subsection (4) relates to an external 
confiscation order made in respect of specified property, to 
property which is specified in that order; and 
(b) in any other case— 
 (i) to all realisable property held by a specified person, whether 
the property is described in the restraint order or not; and 
 (ii) to realisable property held by specified person, being property 
transferred to him after the making of the restraint order.”; 
(b) in subsection (4)(a) for the words “the prosecutor, with the written 
approval of the Attorney General” there shall be substituted the words 
“or on behalf of the Government of a requesting country or, in a case 
registered under section 25, by a receiver appointed under section 14, a 
crown prosecutor or a person authorised in that behalf by the 
Comptroller of Customs”; 
(c) for subsection (4)(c) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(c) notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the rules of the Supreme 
Court 1970, may provide for service on, or the provision of notice 
to, persons affected by the order in a manner the Court may direct”; 
(d) for subsection (5)(b) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(b) shall be discharged when the proceedings in relation to which the 
order was made are concluded.”; 
(e) in subsection (12), for the words “The prosecutor” there shall be 
substituted the words “A person applying for a restraint order under 
subsection (4)(a)”. 
8. In section 12— 
(a) for subsection (1)(a) and (b) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(a) where a fixed amount is payable under an external confiscation 
order, of an amount not exceeding the amount payable; and 
(b) in any other case, of an amount equal to the value from time to 
time of the property charged.”; 
(b) in subsection (3)(a) for the words “the prosecution, with the written 
approval of the Attorney General” there shall be substituted the words 
“or on behalf of the Government of a requesting country or in a case 
where an external confiscation order has been registered under section 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
14 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
25, by a receiver appointed under section 14, a crown prosecutor, or a 
person authorised in that behalf by the Comptroller of Customs”; 
(c) for subsection (3)(c) there shall be substituted the following: 
“(c) notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the Rules of the Supreme 
Court 1970, shall provide for service on, or the provision of notice 
to persons affected by the order in a manner the Court may 
direct;”; 
(d) in subsection (7) for the words “for the offence” there shall be 
substituted the words “against the defendant in the requesting country”. 
9. After section 13 there shall be inserted the following section: 
Applications for restraint and charging Orders 
13A. An application under section 11(4) or (12)3 shall be supported by an 
affidavit which shall— 
(a) state, where applicable, the grounds for believing that an external 
confiscation order may be made in the proceedings instituted or to be 
instituted in the requesting country concerned; 
(b) to the best of the deponent's ability, give particulars of the realisable 
property in respect of which the order is sought and specify the person 
or persons holding that property; 
(c) in a case to which section 10(2) applies, indicate when it is intended that 
proceedings should be instituted in the requesting country concerned, 
and the affidavit may unless the court otherwise directs, contain statements of 
information or belief with the sources and grounds thereof.”. 
10. In section 14, for subsection (1) there shall be substituted the following: 
“ (1) 
Where an external confiscation order has been registered in the 
Court under section 25, the Court may, on the application of a crown prosecutor 
or a person authorised in that behalf by the Comptroller of Customs, exercise the 
powers conferred by subsections (1A) to (6). 
 
(1A) 
In respect of any sum of money payable under the external 
confiscation order the Court may make a garnishee order as if the sum were due 
to the Crown in pursuance of a judgement or order of the Court, but any such 
order shall direct that the sum payable be paid to the Court.”. 
11. In section 15: 
(a) in subsection (1), for the words from “sums”, in the last place where it 
occurs, to the end of the subsection, there shall be substituted the words 
“be paid to the Court and applied for the purposes specified in 
subsections (4) to (6) and in the order so specified.”; 
(b) in subsection (2), for the words “If, after the amount payable under the 
confiscation order”, there shall be substituted the words “Where a fixed 
amount is payable under the external confiscation order and after that 
amount”; 
(c) subsection (3) shall be omitted; 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
15 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
(d) in subsection (4) for the words “The Registrar of the Court shall first”, 
there shall be substituted the words “Any sums paid to the Court under 
subsection (1) or under an order made under section (14)(1A) or 
otherwise in satisfaction an external confiscation order shall be first 
applied to”; 
(e) for subsection (5) there shall be substituted the following subsection: 
“ (5) If the money was paid to the Court by a receiver appointed 
under section 11 or 14 or in pursuance of a charging order the receiver's 
remuneration and expenses shall next be paid.”; 
(f) in subsection (6), for the words “After making” there shall be 
substituted the words “After there has been made,” and for the words 
“Registrar of the Court shall reimburse any amount paid under section 
20(2)” there shall be substituted the words “any amount paid under 
section 18 (2) shall be reimbursed.”; and 
(g) for subsection (7) there shall be substituted the following subsection: 
“ (7) Any sums remaining after all payments required to be paid 
under the foregoing provisions of this section have been made shall be 
paid into the Consolidated Fund.”. 
12. In section 16: 
(a) in subsection (2), for the words from “making available” to the end of 
the subsection there shall be substituted the words “recovering property 
which is liable to be recovered under an external confiscation order 
registered in the Court under section 25 or as the case may be, with a 
view to making available for recovery property which may become 
liable to be recovered under any external confiscation order which may 
be made in the defendant's case.”; and 
(b) in subsection (6), after the word “the” in the fourth place where it 
occurs, there shall be inserted the word “external”. 
13. Section 17 shall be omitted. 
14. In section 18: 
(a) in subsection (5)(a), the words “proceedings for a drug trafficking 
offence have been instituted against him and have not been concluded 
or when” shall be omitted; 
(b) in subsection (5)(b), for the words “conclusion of the proceedings” there 
shall be substituted the words “discharge of the restraint or charging 
order”. 
15. In subsection (2) of section 21 the words “by the prosecutor or, in a case where 
proceedings for a drug trafficking offence are not instituted,” shall be omitted. 
16. Sections 22 to 24 shall be omitted. 
17. Sections 26 to 39 shall be omitted. 
18. After section 25 there shall be inserted the Appendix set out at the end of 
Schedule 3 to this Order. 
__________ 
 
 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
16 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 3 
(Section 3) 
THE DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 1992 AS MODIFIED 
1. (Omitted) 
Interpretation 
2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— 
“corresponding law” has the meaning assigned thereto by section 3; 
“Court” means the High Court; 
“drug trafficking” means doing or being concerned in any of the following, whether in 
the Territory or elsewhere— 
(a) producing or supplying a controlled drug where the production or 
supply contravenes section 6(1) and (2) of the Drugs Prevention of 
Misuse) Act or a corresponding law; 
(b) transporting or storing a controlled drug where possession of the drug 
contravenes section 7(1) of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act or a 
corresponding law; 
(c) importing or exporting a controlled drug where the importation or 
exportation is prohibited by section 5(1) of the Drugs (Prevention of 
Misuse) Act, or a corresponding law; 
(d) entering into or being otherwise concerned in an arrangement 
whereby— 
 (i) the retention or control by or on behalf of another of the proceeds 
of drug trafficking by him is facilitated; or 
 (ii) the proceeds of drug trafficking by another are used to secure that 
funds are placed at his disposal or are used for his benefit to acquire 
property by way of investment; 
(e) manufacturing or supplying a scheduled substance within the meaning 
of section 9 of the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) Act, 
1993 where the manufacture or supply is an offence under that section. 
“interest”, in relation to property, includes right; 
“property” includes money and all other property, real or personal, including things in 
action and other intangible property. 
 (2) The expressions listed in column one below are respectively defined or (as 
the case may be) fall to be construed in accordance with the provision of this Act listed 
in column two in relation to those expressions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
17 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
COLUMN ONE 
COLUMN TWO 
Charging order 
 
 
 
Section 12 (2) 
External confiscation order 
 
Section 5 (3) 
Dealing with property 
 
 
 
Section 11 (8) 
Defendant 
Section 5 (3) 
Gift caught by this Act 
 
 
Section 4 (6) 
Making a gift 
 
Section 4 (7) 
Realisable property 
 
 
 
Section 4 (1) 
Restraint order 
 
Section 11(1) 
Value of gift, payment or reward 
Section 4 (4) 
 
 
 
 
Value of property 
Section 4(3) 
 (3) This Act applies to property whether it is situated in the Territory or 
elsewhere. 
 (4) References in this Act to anything received in connection with drug 
trafficking in that connection and in some other connection, and whether received, 
before or after the commencement of the Drug Trafficking Offences (Enforcement of 
Overseas Orders) Order, 2017 and whether received in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by the recipient or some other person. 
 (5) The following provisions shall have effect for the interpretation of this Act— 
(a) property is held by any person if he holds any interest in it; 
(b) references to property held by a person include a reference to property 
vested in his trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator; 
(c) references to an interest held by a person beneficially in property 
include a reference to an interest which would be held by him 
beneficially if the property were not so vested; 
(d) property is transferred by one person to another if the first person 
transfers or grants to the other any interest in the property; 
(e) proceedings are instituted in a requesting country when— 
 (i) under the law of the requesting country concerned one of the steps 
specified in relation to that country in Column 2 of the Appendix 
hereto has been taken in respect of alleged drug trafficking by the 
defendant; 
 (ii) where no steps have been specified in relation thereto as mentioned 
in sub paragraph (i), the defendant has been notified in writing in 
accordance with the laws of the requesting country that the 
competent authorities of that country have begun proceedings 
against him in respect of an offence; or 
 (iii) an application has been made to a Court in a requesting country for 
an external confiscation order, 
and where the application of this section would result in there being more than one time 
for the institution of proceedings, they shall be taken to have been instituted at the 
earliest of those times; 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
18 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(f) proceedings for an offence are concluded— 
 (i) when (disregarding any power of a court to grant leave to appeal 
out of time) there is no further possibility of a confiscation order 
being made in the proceedings; 
 (ii) on the satisfaction of a confiscation order made in the proceedings 
(whether by the recovery of all property liable to be recovered, or 
the payment of any amount due, or otherwise). 
 (6) An order is subject to appeal until (disregarding any power of a court to 
grant leave to appeal out of time) there is no further possibility of an appeal on which the 
order would be varied or set aside. 
 (7) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law, the powers exercisable 
by the Court are exercisable by the Court of Appeal on appeal from the Court. 
Meaning of corresponding law 
3. (1) In this Act the expression “corresponding law” means a law stated in a 
certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Government of a country 
outside the Territory to be a law providing for the control and regulation in that country 
of production, supply, use, export and import of drugs and other substances in 
accordance with the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs signed at 
New York on 30th March, 1961 or a law providing for the control and regulation in that 
country of the production supply, use, export and import of dangerous or otherwise 
harmful drugs in pursuance of any treaty, convention or other agreement or arrangement 
to which the Government of the country and the Government of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland including the Territory are for the time being parties. 
 (2) A statement in any such certificate as aforesaid to the effect that any facts 
constitute an offence against the law mentioned in the certificate shall be conclusive 
evidence of the matters stated. 
Provisions as to profit 
4. (1) In this Act, “realisable property” means, subject to subsection (2)— 
(a) in relation to an external confiscation order made in respect of specified 
property, the property which is specified in the order; and 
(b) in any other case— 
 (i) any property held by the defendant; and 
 (ii) any property held by a person to whom the defendant has directly 
or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act. 
 (2) Property is not realisable property if an order under section 29 of the Drugs 
(Prevention of Misuse) Act, Cap. 178, is in force in respect of the property. 
 (3) Subject to the following provisions of this section, for the purposes of this 
Act the value of property (other than cash) in relation to any person holding the 
property— 
(a) where any other person holds an interest in the property, is— 
 (i) the market value of the first mentioned person's beneficial interest 
in the property; less 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
19 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
 (ii) the amount required to discharge any incumbrance (other than a 
charging order) on that interest; and 
(b) in any other case, is its market value. 
 (4) Subject to subsection (7), references in this Act to the value at any time 
(referred to in section (4) as “the material time”) of a gift caught by this Act or of any 
payment or reward are references to— 
(a) the value of the gift, payment or reward to the recipient when he 
received it adjusted to take account of subsequent changes in the value 
of money; or 
(b) where subsection (6) applies, the value there mentioned, 
whichever is the greater. 
 (5) Subject to subsection (7) if at the material time the recipient holds— 
(a) the property which he received (not being cash); 
(b) property which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly represents in 
his hands the property which he received, 
the value referred to in subsection (3)(b) is the value to him at the material time of the 
property mentioned in paragraph (a) or, as the case may be, of the property mentioned in 
paragraph (b) so far as it represents the property which he received, but disregarding in 
either case any charging order. 
 (6) A gift (including a gift made before the coming into operation of the Drug 
Trafficking Offences (Designated Countries and Territories) Order, 1996 is caught by 
this Act if— 
(a) it was made by the defendant at any time since the beginning of the 
period of six years ending when the proceedings were instituted against 
him; or 
(b) it was made by the defendant at any time and was a gift of property— 
 (i) received by the defendant in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by him or another; or 
 (ii) which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly represented in 
the defendant's hands property received by him in that 
connection. 
 (7) For the purposes of this Act— 
(a) the circumstances in which the defendant is to be treated as making a 
gift include those where he transfers property to another person directly 
or indirectly for a consideration the value of which is significantly less 
than the value of the consideration provided by the defendant; and 
(b) in those circumstances, the preceding provisions of this section shall 
apply as if the defendant had made a gift of such share in the property as 
bears to the whole property the same proportion as the difference 
between the values referred to in paragraph (a) bears to the value of the 
consideration provided by the defendant. 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
20 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
External confiscation orders 
5. (1) An order made by a court in a requesting country for the purpose of 
recovering payments or other rewards received in connection with drug trafficking or 
their value is referred to in this Act as an “external confiscation order”. 
 (2) In subsection (1) the reference to an order includes any order, decree, 
direction or judgement, or any part thereof, however describe. 
 (3) A person against whom an external confiscation order has been made, or a 
person against whom proceedings which may result in an external confiscation order 
being made have been, or are to be, instituted in a court in a requesting country, is 
referred to in this Act as “the defendant”. 
6. to 9. (Omitted) 
Cases in which restraint orders and charging orders may be made 
10. (1) The powers conferred on the Court by sections 11 and 12 are exercisable 
where— 
(a) proceedings have been instituted against the defendant in a requesting 
country; 
(b) the proceedings have not been concluded; and 
(c) either an external confiscation order has been made in the proceedings 
or it appears to the Court that there are reasonable grounds for believing 
that an external confiscation order may be made in them. 
 (2) The powers conferred on the Court by sections 11 and 12 are also 
exercisable where it appears to the Court that proceedings are to be instituted against the 
defendant in a requesting country and that there are reasonable grounds for believing 
that an external confiscation order may be made in them. 
 (3) Where the Court has made an order under section 11 and 12 by virtue of 
subsection (2), the Court shall discharge the order if the proposed proceedings are not 
instituted. 
Restraint orders 
11. (1) The Court may by order (in this Act referred to as a “restraint order”) 
prohibit any person from dealing with any realisable property, subject to such conditions 
and exceptions as may be specified in the order. 
 (2) A restraint order may apply— 
(a) where an application under subsection (4) relates to an external 
confiscation order made in respect of specified property, to property 
which is specified in that order; and 
(b) in any other case— 
 (i) to all realisable property held by a specified person whether the 
property is described in the restraint order or not; and 
 (ii) to realisable property held by a specified person, being property 
transferred to him after the making of the restraint order. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
21 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
 (3) This section shall not have effect in relation to any property for the time 
being subject to a charge under section 12. 
 (4) A restraint order— 
(a) may be made only on an application by or on behalf of the government 
of a requesting country or, in a case where an external confiscation 
order as been registered under section 25, by a receiver appointed under 
section 14, a crown prosecutor or a person authorised in that behalf by 
the Comptroller of Customs; 
(b) may be made on an ex parte application to a Judge in Chambers; and 
(c) notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Court 
1970, may provide for service on, or the provision of notice to, persons 
affected by the order in a manner the Court may direct. 
 (5) A restraint order— 
(a) may be discharged or vary in relation to any property; and 
(b) shall be discharged when the proceedings in relation to which the order 
was made are concluded. 
 (6) An application for the discharge or variation of a restraint order may be 
made by any person affected by it. 
 (7) Where the Court has made a restraint order, the Court may at any time 
appoint a receiver— 
(a) to take possession of any realisable property, and 
(b) in accordance with the Court's directions, to manage or otherwise deal 
with the property in respect of which he is appointed, 
subject to such conditions and expectations as may be specified by the Court, and may 
require any person having possession of property in respect of which a receiver is 
appointed under this section to give possession of it to the receiver. 
 (8) For the purposes of this section, dealing with property held by any person 
includes (without prejudice to the generality of the expression)— 
(a) where a debt is owed to that person, making a payment to any person in 
reduction of the amount of the debt; and 
(b) removing property from the Territory. 
 (9) Where the Court has made a restraint order, a police officer may for the 
purpose of preventing any realisable property being removed from the Territory seize the 
property. 
 (10) Property seized under subsection (9) shall be dealt with in accordance with 
the Court's directions. 
 (11) The Title by Registration Act and the Registered Land Ordinance, shall 
apply— 
(a) in relation to restraint orders, as they apply in relation to orders affecting 
land made by the court for the purpose of enforcing judgements or 
recognisances; and 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
22 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) in relation to applications for restraint orders, as they apply in relation to 
other pending land actions. 
 (12) A person applying for a restraint order under subsection (4)(a) shall be 
treated for the purposes of section 124 of the Registered Land Ordinance as a person 
interested in relation to any registered land to which a restraint order or an application 
for such an order relates. 
Charging orders in respect of land securities, etc. 
12. (1) The Court may make a charging order on realisable property for securing the 
payment to the Crown— 
(a) where a fixed amount is payable under an external confiscation order, of 
an amount not exceeding the amount payable; and 
(b) in any other case, of an amount equal to the value from time to time of 
the property charged. 
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a charging order made under this section 
imposing on any such realisable property as may have been specified in the order a 
charge for securing the payment of money to the Crown. 
 (3) A charging order— 
(a) may be made only on an application by or on behalf of the government 
of a requesting country or, in a case where an external confiscation 
order has been registered under section 25 of this Act, a crown 
prosecutor, or a person authorised in that behalf by the Comptroller of 
Customs; 
(b) may be made on an ex parte application to a Judge in Chambers; 
(c) notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Court 
1970, shall provide for service on, or the provision of notice to persons 
affected by the order in such manner as the Court may direct; and 
(d) may be made subject to such conditions as the Court thinks fit and, 
without prejudice to the generality of this paragraph, such conditions as 
it thinks fit as to the time when the charge is to become effective. 
 (4) Subject to subsection (6), a charge may be imposed by a charging order only 
on— 
(a) any interest in realisable property, being an interest held beneficially by 
the defendant or by a person to whom the defendant has directly or 
indirectly made a gift caught by this Act in any asset of a kind 
mentioned in subsection (5); or 
(b) any interest in realisable property held by a person as trustee of a trust if 
the interest is in such an asset or is an interest under another trust and a 
charge may by virtue of paragraph (a) be imposed by a charging order 
on the whole beneficial interest under the first mentioned trust. 
 (5) The assets referred to in subsection (4) are— 
(a) land in the Territory; or 
(b) securities of any of the following kinds— 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
23 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
 (i) Government stock; 
 (ii) stock of any body (other than a building society) incorporated 
within the Territory; 
 (iii) stock of any body incorporated outside the Territory, being stock 
registered in a register kept within the Territory; 
 (iv) units of any unit trust in respect of which a register of the unit 
holders is kept within the Territory. 
 (6) In any case where a charge is imposed by a charging order on any interest in 
an asset of a kind mentioned in subsection (5)(b), the Court may provide for the charge 
to extend to any interest or dividend payable in respect of that asset. 
 (7) The Court may make an order discharging or varying the charging order and 
shall make an order discharging the charging order if the proceedings against the 
defendant in the requesting country are concluded or the amount of payment of which is 
secured by the charge is paid into Court. 
 (8) An application for the discharge or variation of a charging order may be 
made by any person affected by it. 
Charging orders: supplementary provisions 
13. Subject to any provision made under section 14 or by rules of court, a charge 
imposed by a charging order shall have the like effect and shall be enforceable in the 
same courts and in the same manner as an equitable charge created by the person 
holding the beneficial interest or, as the case may be, the trustees by writing under their 
hand. 
Applications for restraint and charging orders 
13A. 
An application under section 11(4) or 12(3) shall be supported by an 
affidavit which shall— 
(a) state, where applicable, the grounds for believing that an external 
confiscation order may be made in the proceedings instituted or to be 
instituted in the requesting country concerned, 
(b) to the best of the deponent's ability, give particulars of the realisable 
property in respect of which the order is sought and specify the person 
or persons holding that property, 
(c) in a case to which section 10 (2) applies, indicate when it is intended 
that proceedings should be instituted in the requesting country 
concerned, 
and the affidavit may, unless the court otherwise directs, contain statements of 
information or belief with the sources and grounds thereof. 
Realisation of property 
14. (1) Where an external confiscation order has been registered in the Court under 
section 25, the Court may, on the application of a crown prosecutor or a person 
authorised in that behalf by the Comptroller of Customs, exercise the powers conferred 
by subsections (1A) to (6). 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
24 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(1A) In respect of any sum of money payable under the external confiscation 
order the Court may make a garnishee order as if the sum were due to the Crown in 
pursuance of a judgement or order of the Court, but any such Order shall direct that the 
sum payable shall be paid to the Court. 
 (2) The Court may appoint a receiver in respect of realisable property. 
 (3) The Court may empower a receiver appointed under subsection (2), under 
section 11 or in pursuance of a charging order— 
(a) to enforce any charge imposed under section 12 on realisable property 
or on interest or dividends payable in respect of such property; and 
(b) in relation to any realisable property other than property for the time 
being subject to a charge under section 12, to take possession of the 
property subject to such conditions or exceptions as may be specified by 
the Court. 
 (4) The Court may order any person having possession of realisable property to 
give possession of it to any such receiver. 
 (5) The Court may empower any such receiver to realise any realisable property 
in such manner as the Court may direct. 
 (6) The Court may order any person holding an interest in realisable property to 
make such payment to the receiver in respect of any beneficial interest held by the 
defendant, or as the case may be, the recipient of a gift caught by this Act as the Court 
may direct and the Court may on the payment being made, by order transfer, grant or 
extinguish any interest in the property. 
 (7) Subsections (4) to (6) do not apply to the property for the time being subject 
to a charge under section 12. 
 (8) The Court shall not in respect of any property exercise the powers conferred 
by subsections (3)(a), (5) or (6) unless a reasonable opportunity has been given for 
persons holding any interest in the property to make representations to the Court. 
Application of proceeds of realisation and other sums 
15. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the following sums in the hands of a receiver 
appointed under section 11 or 12 or in pursuance of a charging order, that is— 
(a) the proceeds of the enforcement of any charge imposed under section 
12; 
(b) the proceeds of the realisation, other than by the enforcement of such a 
charge, of any property under section 11 or 14; and 
(c) any other sums, being property held by the defendant, 
shall, first be applied in payment of such expenses incurred by a person acting as a 
receiver or a liquidator as are payable under section 20 (2) and then shall after such 
payments (if any) as the Court may direct have been made out of those sums, be paid to 
the Court and applied for the purposes specified in subsections (4) to (6) and in the order 
so specified. 
 (2) Where a fixed amount is payable under the external confiscation order and 
after that amount has been fully paid, any such sums remain in the hands of such a 
receiver, the receiver shall distribute those sums— 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
25 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
(a) among some of those who held property which has been realised under 
this Act, and 
(b) in such proportions, 
as the Court may direct after giving a reasonable opportunity for such persons to make 
representations to the Court. 
 (3) Any sums paid to the Court under subsection (1) or under an order made 
under section 14(1A) or otherwise in satisfaction of an external confiscation order shall 
be first applied to pay any expenses incurred by a person acting as a receiver or a 
liquidator and payable under section 20(2) but not already paid under subsection (1). 
 (4) If the money was paid to the Court by a receiver appointed under section 11 
or 14 or in pursuance of a charging order the receiver's remuneration and expenses shall 
next be paid. 
 (5) After there has been made— 
(a) any payment required by subsection (3); and 
(b) in a case to which subsection (4) applies, any payment required by that 
subsection, 
any amount paid under section 18(2) shall be reimbursed. 
 (6) Any sums remaining after all the sums required to be made under the 
foregoing provisions of this section have been made shall be paid into the Consolidated 
Fund. 
Exercise of powers by Court or receiver 
16. (1) The following provisions apply to the powers conferred on the Court by 
sections 11 to 15, or on a receiver appointed under sections 11 to 14 or in pursuance of a 
charging order. 
 (2) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the powers shall be 
exercised with a view to recovering property which is liable to be recovered under an 
external confiscation order registered in the Court under section 25, or as the case may 
be, with a view to making available for recovery property which may become liable to 
be recovered under any external confiscation order which may be made in the 
defendant’s case. 
 (3) In the case of realisable property held by a person to whom the defendant 
has directly or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act, the powers shall be exercised 
with a view to realising no more than the value for the time being of the gift. 
 (4) The powers shall be exercised with a view to allowing any person other than 
the defendant or the recipient of any such gift to retain or recover the value of any 
property held by him. 
 (5) An order may be made or other action taken in respect of a debt owed by the 
Crown. 
 (6) In exercising those powers, no account shall be taken of any obligations of 
the defendant or of the recipient of any such gift which conflict with the obligation to 
satisfy the external confiscation order. 
17. (Omitted) 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
26 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Bankruptcy of defendant, etc. 
18. (1) Where a person who holds realisable property is adjudged bankrupt— 
(a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made before the 
order adjudging him bankrupt, and 
(b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 11(6) or 14(5) or 
(6) for the time being in the hands of a receiver appointed under section 
11 or 14, 
is excluded from the property of the bankrupt for the purposes of the Insolvency Act, 
No. 5 of 2003. 
 (2) Where a person has been adjudged bankrupt, the powers conferred by 
the Court by sections 11 to 15 or on a receiver so appointed shall not be 
exercised in relation to— 
(a) property of the bankrupt for the time being for the purposes of the 
Insolvency Act, No. 5 of 2003; and 
(b) property which is to be applied for the benefit or creditors of the 
bankrupt by virtue of a condition imposed the pursuant to the 
Insolvency Act. 
 (3) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order— 
(a) made before the order adjudging the person bankrupt; or 
(b) on property which was subject to a restraint order when the order 
adjudging him bankrupt was made. 
 (4) Where, in the case of a debtor, an interim receiver stands appointed under 
section 10 of the Insolvency Act, No. 5 of 2003 and any property of the debtor is subject 
to a restraint order, the powers conferred on the interim receiver by virtue of that section 
do not apply to property for the time being subject to the restraint order. 
 (5) Where a person is adjudged bankrupt and has directly or indirectly made a 
gift caught by this Act— 
(a) no order shall be made under the Insolvency Act, No. 5 of 2003 in 
respect of the making of the gift at any time when property of the person 
to whom the gift was made is subject to a restraint order or a charging 
order; and 
(b) any order made under either of those sections after the discharge of the 
restraint or charging order shall take into account any realisation under 
this Act or property held by the person to whom the gift was made. 
Winding up of company holding realisable property 
19. (1) Where realisable property is held by a company and an order for the 
winding up of the company has been made or a resolution has been passed by the 
company for the voluntary winding up, the functions of the liquidator (or any 
provisional liquidator) shall not be exercisable in relation to— 
(a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made before the 
relevant time; and 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
27 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
(b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 11(6) or 14(5) or 
(6) for the time being in the hands of a receiver appointed under section 
11 or 14. 
 (2) Where, in the case of a company, such an order has been made or such a 
resolution has been passed, the powers conferred on the Court by sections 11 to 15 or on 
a receiver so appointed shall not be exercised in relation to any realisable property held 
by the company in relation to which the functions of the liquidator are exercisable— 
(a) so as to inhibit from exercising those functions for the purpose of 
distributing any property held by the company to the company creditors; 
or 
(b) so as to prevent the payment out of any property of expenses (including 
the remuneration of the liquidator or any provisional liquidator) 
properly incurred in the winding up in the respect of the property. 
 (3) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order made 
before the relevant time or on property which was subject to a restraint order at the 
relevant time. 
 (4) In this section— 
“company” means any company which may be wound up under the BVI Business 
Companies Act; and 
“the relevant time”, means— 
(a) where no order for the winding up of the company has been made, the 
time of the passing of the resolution for voluntary winding up; 
(b) where such an order has been made and, before the presentation of the 
petition for the winding up of the company by the Court, such a 
resolution has been passed by the company, the time of the passing of 
the resolution; and 
(c) in any other cases where such an order has been made, the time of the 
making of the order. 
Receivers and liquidators dealing with property subject to restraint order 
20. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of any provisions contained in the 
Insolvency Act, No. 5 of 2003 or any other enactment, where— 
(a) any person acting as a receiver or liquidator seizes or disposes of any 
property in relation to which his functions are not exercisable because it 
is for the time being subject to a restraint order; and 
(b) at the time of the seizure or disposal he believes, and has reasonable 
grounds for believing, that he is entitled (whether in pursuance of the 
order of the Court or otherwise) to seize or dispose of that property, 
he shall not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage resulting from the 
seizure or disposal except in so far as the loss or damage is caused by his negligence in 
so acting, and a person so acting shall have a lien on the property, or the proceeds of its 
sale, for such of his expenses as were incurred in connection with the liquidation, 
bankruptcy or other proceedings in relation to which the seizure or disposal purported to 
take place and for so much of his remuneration as may reasonably be assigned for his 
acting in connection with those proceedings. 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
28 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (2) Any person who, acting as a receiver or liquidator incurs expenses— 
(a) in respect of such property as is mentioned in paragraph (a) of 
subsection (1) and in so doing does not know and has no reasonable 
grounds to believe that the property is for the time being subject to a 
restraint order; or 
(b) other than in respect of such property as is so mentioned, being expenses 
which but for the effect of a restraint order, might have been met by 
taking possession and realising the property, 
shall be entitled (whether or not he has seized or disposed of that property so as to have a 
lien under the subsection) to payment of those expenses under section 15. 
 (3) In this Act, the expression “acting as a receiver or a liquidator” shall be 
construed in accordance with the provisions of the Insolvency Act, No. 5 of 2003 and 
the BVI Business Companies Act, No. 16 of 2004 respectively. 
Receivers: supplementary provisions 
21. (1) Where the receiver appointed under section 11 or 14 or in pursuance of a 
charging order takes any action— 
(a) in relation to property which is not realisable property, being action 
which he would be entitled to take if it were such property; 
(b) believing, and having reasonable grounds for believing, that he is 
entitled to take that action in relation to that property, 
he shall not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage resulting from his 
action except in so far as the loss or damage is caused by his negligence. 
 (2) Any amount due in respect of the remuneration and expenses of a receiver so 
appointed shall be paid by the person on whose application the receiver was appointed. 
22. to 24. (Omitted) 
Registration of external confiscation orders 
25. (1) On an application made by or on behalf of the government of a requesting 
country, the Court may register an external confiscation order made there if— 
(a) it is satisfied that at the time of registration the order is in force and not 
subject to appeal; 
(b) it is satisfied, where the person against whom the order is made did not 
appear in the proceedings, that he received notice of the proceedings in 
sufficient time to enable him to defend them; and 
(c) it is of the opinion that enforcing the order in the Territory would not be 
contrary to the interest of justice. 
 (2) In subsection (1) “appeal” includes— 
(a) any proceedings by way of discharging or setting aside a judgement; and 
(b) an application for a new trial or a stay of execution. 
 (3) The Court shall cancel the registration of an external confiscation order if it 
appears to the Court that the order has been satisfied by payment of the amount due 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order 
29 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
[Statutory Instrument] 
 
 
under it or by the person against whom it was made serving imprisonment in default of 
payment or by any other means. 
26. to 38. (Omitted) 
 
APPENDIX 
(Section 2(6)(e)(i)) 
INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS 
 
Requesting country 
Point at which proceedings are instituted 
Anguilla 
(a) when a summons or warrant is issued in respect of 
an offence; 
(b) when a person is charged with an offence after 
being taken into custody without a warrant; 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is preferred. 
Argentina 
when a judge has ordered that a person be detained for 
the purpose of testifying in connection with the 
commission of an offence. 
Australia 
 
(a) when an information has been laid before a justice 
of the peace; 
(b) when a person is charged with an offence after 
having been taken into custody without a warrant; 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is Preferred. 
The Bahamas 
(a) when an information has been laid before a justice 
of the peace; 
(b) when a person is charged with an offence after 
having been taken into custody without a warrant; 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is Preferred. 
Bahrain 
when a bill of indictment is lodged in court against any 
person for an Offence. 
Barbados 
(a) when an information has been laid before the 
magistrate; 
(b) when a person is charged with an offence; 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is Preferred. 
Bermuda 
when information is laid charging a person with an 
offence. 
The Cayman Islands 
(a) when a charge has been signed under subsection (3) 
or (4) of section 13 of the Criminal Procedure Code 
in respect of the offence; 
(b) when a person is being charged with an offence 
after being arrested without a warrant under 
subsection (5) of that section. 
Ecuador 
when a writ is issued by a judge initiating criminal 
proceedings. 
Germany 
when a person is notified that he is accused of an offence 
and will be brought before a court. 
Gibraltar 
when a person is charged with an offence, whether by 
the laying of an information or otherwise. 
Guernsey 
when a person is charged with an offence. 
Guyana 
when a charge has been laid against a person for an 
offence. 
 
 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
30 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order  
[Statutory Instrument]  
 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Requesting country 
Point at which proceedings are instituted 
Hong Kong 
(a) when a magistrate issues a warrant or summons; 
(b) when a person is charged with an offence; 
(c) 
when an indictment is preferred. 
India 
(a) when information relating to commission of any crime is 
received by any law enforcement agency empowered to 
investigate such crime under the law for the time being 
in force and laid before a court of law; 
(b) when any allegation is made orally or in writing to a 
court of law that a person has committed an offence; 
(c) 
when a person is charged with an offence; 
(d) when any investigation or inquiry into the commission of 
any offence is directed by a court of law. 
Isle of Man 
(a) where a justice of the peace issues a summons under 
section 4 of the Summary Jurisdiction Act 1980, when 
the complaint in relation to the offence is made to him; 
(b) where a justice of the peace issues a warrant for the 
arrest of any person under that section, when the 
complaint in relation to the offence is made to him; 
(c) 
where a person is charged with the offence after being 
taken into custody without a warrant, when he is taken 
into custody; 
(d) where an information is preferred by the Attorney 
General in a case where there have been no committal 
proceedings, when the information is lodged in the 
General Registry in accordance with section 4(1) of the 
Criminal Code Amendment Act 1917. 
Italy 
(a) when a person is notified, in accordance with article 369 
of the Italian Code of Criminal Procedure, that a 
prosecution against him is in progress; 
(b) when a proposal for the application of a preventative 
measure (“misura di prevenzione”) is laid before a court. 
Jersey 
(a) when the Bailiff issues a warrant in respect of an offence 
for the arrest of a person who is out of the island; 
(b) when a person is arrested and charged with an offence; 
(c) when a summons in respect of an offence is served on a 
person at  the instance of the Attorney General; 
(d) when a summons in respect of the offence is served on a 
person in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of 
the Police Court (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Jersey) 
Law, 1949. 
Malaysia 
when a person is charged with an Offence. 
Montserrat 
(a) 
when a judge issues a summons or warrant in respect of 
an offence; 
(b) 
when a person is charged with an offence after being 
taken into custody without a warrant. 
Netherlands 
(a) when a pre-trial financial investigation has been initiated; 
(b) when the provisional order has been ordered by an 
investigating magistrate; 
(c) 
when a public prosecutor has requested a pre-trial 
criminal investigation by an investigating magistrate to 
be instituted; 
(d) when a public prosecutor has laid an indictment. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Drug Trafficking Offences 
 
(Enforcement of Overseas Confiscation Orders) Order
31 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
[Statutory Instrument] 
Requesting country 
Point at which proceedings are instituted 
Netherlands 
(a)
when a pre-trial financial investigation has been
initiated;
(b)
when the provisional order has been ordered by an
investigating magistrate;
(c)
when a public prosecutor has requested a pre-trial
criminal 
investigation 
by 
an 
investigating
magistrate to be instituted;
(d)
when a public prosecutor has laid an indictment.
Panama 
when a person has been charged with an offence. 
Saudi Arabia 
when an information has been laid before a judicial 
authority. 
South Africa 
(a)
when a summons is issued in respect of an offence;
(b)
when a person is charged with an offence;
(c)
when a bill of indictment is preferred.
Spain 
when by virtue of a judicial resolution it is decided to 
proceed against a person for an offence. 
Sweden 
when a public prosecutor has established that there are 
reasonable grounds to suspect that a person has 
committed an offence and accordingly is obliged under 
the Code of Judicial Procedure to notify the person of the 
Suspicion. 
Switzerland 
when proceedings for an offence are brought before an 
examining magistrate. 
United Kingdom 
(a)
when an information is laid before a justice of the
peace;
(b)
when a person is charged with an offence;
(c)
when a bill of indictment is preferred;
(d)
when a petition warrant is granted.
United Mexican 
when criminal proceedings are States instituted by a 
judicial Authority. 
United States of America 
when an indictment, information or America complaint 
has been filed against a person in respect of an offence. 
Uruguay 
when criminal proceedings are instituted by a judicial 
authority. 
__________ 
