 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
3 
 Act 5 of 1992   ..   in force 16 July 1992 (S.I. 10/1992) 
 
 
Amended by Acts: 8 of 1993   ..   in force 22 October 1993 (S.I. 29/1993) 
 
 
5 of 2000   ..   in force 19 June 2000 
 
 
17 of 2006   ..   in force 1 December 2006 
 
 
2 of 2008   ..   in force 7 February 2008 
 
 
12 of 2017   ..   in force 10 June 2017 
 
SEE STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS BOOKLET 
 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
 
 
 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
3 
 Act 5 of 1992   ..   in force 16 July 1992 (S.I. 10/1992) 
 
 
Amended by Acts: 8 of 1993   ..   in force 22 October 1993 (S.I. 29/1993) 
 
 
5 of 2000   ..   in force 19 June 2000 
 
 
17 of 2006   ..   in force 1 December 2006 
 
 
2 of 2008   ..   in force 7 February 2008 
 
 
12 of 2017   ..   in force 10 June 2017 
 
SEE STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS BOOKLET 
 
 
 
Published in 2021 
On the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands  
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
 
For information contact—  
 
Attorney General’s Chambers 
Government of the Virgin Islands 
P.O. Box 242 
Road Town  
Tortola, VG1110 
   British Virgin Islands 
 
Tel: (284) 468 - 2960 
Email: agc@gov.vg   
 
 
Printed on the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands 
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
P.O. Box 1626, 5 Mar Building,  
The Valley, AI-2640, Anguilla 
Authorised Printers for this Revised Edition 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
3 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
SECTION 
 
1. 
Short title  
 
2. 
Interpretation 
 
3. 
Meaning of “corresponding law” 
 
4. 
Provisions as to profit 
 
5. 
Confiscation orders 
 
6. 
Postponed determinations  
 
7. 
Assessing the proceeds of drug trafficking 
 
8. 
Statements relating to drug trafficking 
 
9. 
Provision of information by defendant 
 
10. 
Amount to be recovered under confiscation order 
 
11. 
Powers to be exercised where defendant has died or absconded 
 
12. 
Effect of conviction where Court has acted under section 11 
 
13. 
Reconsideration of case where Court has not proceeded under section 5 
 
14. 
Re-assessment of whether defendant has benefitted from drug trafficking 
 
15. 
Revision of assessment of proceeds of drug trafficking 
 
16. 
Application of procedure for enforcing fines 
 
17. 
Cases in which restraint orders and charging orders may be made 
 
18. 
Restraint orders 
 
19. 
Charging orders in respect of land, securities etc. 
 
20. 
Charging orders: supplementary provisions 
 
21. 
Realisation of property 
 
22. 
Application of proceeds of realisation and other sums 
 
23. 
Exercise of powers by court or receiver 
 
24. 
Variation of confiscation orders 
 
25. 
Bankruptcy of defendant, etc. 
 
26. 
Winding up of company holding realisable property 
 
27. 
Receivers and liquidators dealing with property subject to restraint order 
 
28. 
Receivers: supplementary provisions 
 
29. 
Compensation 
 
30. 
Compensation, etc. where absconder is acquitted 
 
31. 
Power to discharge confiscation order and order compensation where 
absconder returns 
 
32. 
Variation of confiscation order made by virtue of section 11 
 
33. 
Assisting another to retain the benefit of drug trafficking 
 
34. 
Acquisition, possession or use of property representing proceeds of drug 
trafficking 
 
35. 
Concealing or transferring property representing proceeds of drug 
trafficking 
 
36. 
Failure to disclose knowledge or suspicion of money laundering 
 
37. 
Tipping-off 
4 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
38. 
Enforcement of external confiscation orders 
 
39. 
Registration of external confiscation orders 
 
40. 
Orders to make material available 
 
41. 
Authority for search 
 
42. 
Meaning of “items subject to legal privilege” 
 
43. 
Meaning of “excluded material” 
 
44. 
Meaning of “personal records” 
 
45. 
Meaning of “journalistic material” 
 
46. 
Disclosure of information held by government departments 
 
47. 
Prejudicing an investigation 
 
48. 
Seizure and detention of cash 
 
49. 
Forfeiture 
 
50. 
Forfeiture: general 
 
51. 
Interest 
 
52. 
Procedure 
 
53. 
Interpretation of certain expressions in sections 48 to 51 
 
54. 
Regulations 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
5 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
DRUG TRAFFICKING OFFENCES ACT 
(Acts 5 of 1992, 8 of 1993, 5 of 2000, 17 of 2006, 2 of 2008 and 12 of 2017) 
AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE RECOVERY OF THE PROCEEDS OF DRUG 
TRAFFICKING AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. 
Commencement 
[16 July 1992] 
Short title 
1. This Act may be cited as the Drug Trafficking Offences Act. 
Interpretation 
2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— 
“Agency” means the Financial Investigation Agency established under section 
3(1) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act; (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
“confiscation order” means an order made under section 5 and includes, in 
particular, an order under that section which is made by virtue of section 11, 
13 or 14; (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
“corresponding law” has the meaning assigned there to by section 3; 
“country” includes territory; (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
“court” means the High Court or the Magistrate’s Court; (Substituted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
“defendant” means a person against whom proceedings have been instituted for a 
drug trafficking offence, whether or not he has been convicted; (Inserted by 
Act 5 of 2000) 
“drug money laundering” means doing any act which constitutes an offence under 
section 33, 34 or 35 or, in the case of an act done otherwise than in the 
Territory, would constitute such an offence if done in the Territory; (Inserted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
“drug trafficking” means doing or being concerned in any of the following 
whether in the Territory or elsewhere— 
(a) producing or supplying a controlled drug where the production or 
supply contravenes section 6(1) of the Drugs (Prevention of 
Misuse) Act, or a corresponding law; 
(b) transporting or storing a controlled drug where possession of the 
drug contravenes section 7(1) of the Drugs (Prevention of 
Misuse) Act, or a corresponding law; 
(c) importing or exporting a controlled drug where the importation or 
exportation is prohibited by section 5(1) of the Drugs (Prevention 
of Misuse) Act, or a corresponding law; 
6 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(d) 
manufacturing or supplying a scheduled substance within the 
meaning of section 11 of the Criminal Justice (International Co-
operation) Act, where the manufacture or supply is an offence 
under that section or would be such an offence if it took place in 
the Territory; (Inserted by Act 8 of 1993 and amended by Act 5 of 
2000) 
(e) entering into or being otherwise concerned in an arrangement 
whereby— 
 (i) the retention or control by or on behalf of another of the 
proceeds of drug trafficking by him or her is facilitated; or 
 (ii) the proceeds of drug trafficking by another are used to secure 
that funds are placed at his or her disposal or are used for his 
or her benefit to acquire property by way of investment; 
(f) acquiring, 
having 
possession 
of 
or 
using 
property 
in 
circumstances which amount to the commission of an offence 
under section 34, or which would be such an offence if it took 
place in the Territory; (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(g) conduct which is an offence under section 13 of the Criminal 
Justice (International Co-operation) Act, or which would be such 
an offence if it took place in the Territory; (Inserted by Act 5 of 
2000) 
(h) using a ship for illicit traffic in controlled drugs in circumstances 
which amount to the commission of an offence under section 17 
of the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) Act; (Inserted 
by Act 5 of 2000) 
“drug trafficking offence” means— 
(a) an offence under section 5, 6(2) or 6(3) or 7(2) (where subsection 
(4) applies) or 7(3) of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act, 
(import, export, production, supply and possession for supply of 
controlled drugs); 
(b) an offence under section 20 of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) 
Act, (assisting in or inducing commission outside the Territory of 
an offence punishable under a corresponding law); 
(c) an offence under section 33 of this Act; 
(d) an offence under section 34; (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(e) an offence under section 11, 13 or 17 of the Criminal Justice 
(International Cooperation) Act; (Inserted by Act 8 of 1993) 
(f) a conspiracy to commit any of those offences in paragraphs (a) to 
(e); (Amended by Act 8 of 1993) 
(g) an offence of attempting to commit any of those offences in 
paragraphs (a) to (e); (Amended by Act 8 of 1993) 
(h) an offence of inciting another to commit any of those offences in 
paragraphs (a) to (c); 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
7 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(i) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of those 
offences in paragraphs (a) to (c); 
“interest”, in relation to property, includes right; 
“police officer” includes, in relation to drug trafficking or drug trafficking 
offences, the Director or an investigating officer of the Agency; (Inserted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
“property” includes money and all other property, real or personal, including 
things in action and other intangible property; 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee established under section 
3(3) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act; (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) Where in this Act provision is made— 
(a) for a report or a disclosure to be made to a police officer or the 
Steering Committee or a disclosure to be made by the Steering 
Committee, the requirement shall be considered to be complied 
with if it is made to or by the Agency; or 
(b) conferring power on a police officer, that power may be exercised 
by or on the authority of the Agency. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) The expressions listed in column one below are respectively defined 
or (as the case may be) fall to be construed in accordance with the provision of 
this Act listed in column two in relation to those expressions. 
COLUMN ONE 
COLUMN TWO 
Benefitted from drug trafficking ……………………..…. 
Section 5(2) 
Charging order ………………………………………...… 
Section 19(2) 
Dealing with property ………………………………...…. 
Section 18(8) 
Gift caught by this Act ………………………………..… 
Section 4(8) 
Making a gift ………………………………………….... 
Section 4(9) 
Proceeds of drug trafficking …………………………….. 
Section 7(1) 
Realisable property ……………………………………... 
Section 4(1) 
Restraint order …………………………………………... 
Section 18(1) 
Value of gift, payment or reward ……………………..… 
Section 4(5) 
Value of proceeds of drug trafficking ………………...… 
Section 7(1), (5) 
Value of property …………………………………...…… 
Section 4(4) 
(Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (4) This Act applies to property whether it is situated in the Territory or 
elsewhere. 
 (5) References in this Act to offences include a reference to offences 
committed before the coming into operation of this Act, but nothing in this Act 
imposes any duty or confers any power on the court in or in connection with 
proceedings against a person for a drug trafficking offence instituted before the 
coming into operation of this Act. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (6) References in this Act to anything received in connection with drug 
trafficking include a reference to anything received both in that connection and 
in some other connection. 
8 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (7) The following provisions shall have effect for the interpretation of this 
Act— 
(a) property is held by any person if he or she holds or obtains any 
interest in it; (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) references to property held by a person include a reference to 
property vested in his or her trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator; 
(c) references to an interest held by a person beneficially in property 
include a reference to an interest which would be held by him or 
her beneficially if the property were not so vested; 
(d) property is transferred by one person to another if the first person 
transfers or grants to the other any interest in the property; 
(e) proceedings are instituted in the Territory— 
 (i) when a summons or warrant is issued in respect of the 
offence; 
 (ii) when a person is charged with the offence after being taken 
into custody without a warrant; 
(iii) when an indictment is preferred, 
and where the application of this subsection would result in there 
being more than one time for the institution of proceedings, they 
shall be taken to have been instituted at the earliest of those times; 
(f) Proceedings for a drug trafficking offence are concluded— 
 (i) when the defendant is acquitted on all counts or, as the case 
may be, every charge against him or her is dismissed; 
 (ii) if he or she is convicted on one or more counts but the court 
decides not to make a confiscation order against him or her, 
when the court makes that decision; 
(iii) if he or she is sentenced without the court having considered 
whether or not to proceed under section 5 in his or her case, 
when he or she is sentenced; or 
(iv) if a confiscation order is made against him or her in those 
proceedings when the order is satisfied. 
(Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(g) an application under section 11, 13 or 14 is concluded— 
 (i) if the court decides not to make a confiscation order against 
the defendant, when it makes that decision; 
 (ii) if a confiscation order is made against the defendant as a 
result of that application, when the order is satisfied; or 
(iii) if the application is withdrawn, when the prosecutor notifies 
the withdrawal of the application to the court to which it was 
made; (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(h) an application under section 15 of the Criminal Justice 
(International Co-operation) Act, or section 15 is concluded— 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
9 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (i) if the court decides not to vary the confiscation order in 
question, when it makes that decision; or 
 (ii) if the court varies the confiscation order as a result of the 
application, when the order is satisfied; 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(i) a confiscation order is satisfied when no amount is due under it; 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(j) for the purposes of section 25, a confiscation order is also 
satisfied when the defendant in respect of whom it was made has 
served a term of imprisonment in default of payment of the 
amount due under the order. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (8) A proceeding referred to in paragraph (f) or an application referred to 
in paragraph (g) or (h) shall not be treated as concluded, until there is no further 
possibility of an appeal in respect of the proceeding or the application. (Inserted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (9) An order is subject to appeal until (disregarding any power of a court 
to grant leave to appeal out of time) there is no further possibility of an appeal on 
which the order would be varied or set aside. 
(10) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law, the powers 
exercisable by the court are exercisable by the Court of Appeal on appeal from 
the court. 
Meaning of “corresponding law” 
3. (1) In this Act the expression “corresponding law” means a law stated in 
a certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the Government of a 
country outside the Territory to be a law providing for the control and regulation 
in that country of the production, supply, use, export and import of drugs and 
other substances in accordance with the provisions of the Single Convention on 
Narcotic Drugs signed at New York on 30 March 1961 or a law providing for the 
control and regulation in that country of the production, supply, use, export and 
import of dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs in pursuance of any treaty, 
convention or other agreement or arrangement to which the Government of the 
country and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland including the Territory are for the time being parties. 
 (2) A statement in any such certificate as aforesaid to the effect that any 
facts constitute an offence against the law mentioned in the certificate shall be 
conclusive evidence of the matters stated. 
Provisions as to profit 
4. (1) In this Act, “realisable property” means, subject to subsection (2)— 
(a) any property held by the defendant; and 
(b) any property held by a person to whom the defendant has directly 
or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act. 
 (2) Property is not realisable property if an order— 
(a) under section 29 of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act; 
10 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) under section 37B of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act;  
(c) under article 15 of the Anti-terrorism (Financial and Other 
Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order; or 
(d) made pursuant to any other enactment,  
is in force in respect of the property. 
(Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) For the purposes of this Act, the amount that might be realised at the 
time a confiscation order is made against the defendant is— 
(a) the total of the value at that time of all the realisable property held 
by the defendant; less 
(b) where there are obligations having priority at that time, the total 
amounts payable in pursuance of such obligations, 
together with the total of the values at that time of all gifts caught by this Act. 
(Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (4) Subject to the following provisions of this section, for the purposes of 
this Act the value of property (other than cash) in relation to any person holding 
the property— 
(a) where any other person holds an interest in the property, is— 
 (i) the market value of the first-mentioned person’s beneficial 
interest in the property; less 
 (ii) the amount required to discharge an incumbrance (other than 
a charging order under this Act, the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act or any other enactment) on that interest; and 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) in any other case, is its market value. 
 (5) Subject to subsection (9), references in this Act to the value at any 
time (referred to in subsection (6) as “the material time”) of a gift caught by this 
Act or of any payment or reward are references to— 
(a) the value of the gift, payment or reward to the recipient when he 
or she received it adjusted to take account of subsequent changes 
in the value of money; or 
(b) where subsection (6) applies, the value there mentioned, 
whichever is the greater. 
 (6) Subject to subsection (9), if, at the material time the recipient holds— 
(a) the property which he or she received (not being cash); 
(b) property which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly 
represents in his or her hands the property which he or she 
received, 
the value referred to in subsection (5)(b) is the value to him or her at the material 
time of the property mentioned in paragraph (a) or, as the case may be, of the 
property mentioned in paragraph (b) so far as it represents the property which he 
or she received, but disregarding in either case any charging order. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
11 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (7) For the purposes of subsection (3), an obligation has priority at any 
time if it is an obligation of the defendant to— 
(a) pay an amount due in respect of a fine, or other order of a court, 
imposed or made on conviction of an offence, where the fine was 
imposed or order made before the confiscation order; or 
(b) pay any sum which, if the defendant had been adjudged bankrupt 
or was being wound up, would be among the preferential debts. 
 (8) A gift (including a gift made before the coming into operation of this 
Act) is caught by this Act if— 
(a) it was made by the defendant at any time since the beginning of 
the period of 6 years ending when the proceedings were instituted 
against him or her; or 
(b) it was made by the defendant at any time and was a gift of 
property— 
 (i) received by the defendant in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by him or her or another; or 
 (ii) which in whole or in part directly or indirectly represented in 
the defendant’s hands property received by him or her in that 
connection. 
 (9) For the purposes of this Act— 
(a) the circumstances in which the defendant is to be treated as 
making a gift include those where he or she transfers property to 
another person directly or indirectly for a consideration the value 
of which is significantly less than the value of the consideration 
provided by the defendant; and 
(b) in those circumstances, the preceding provisions of this section 
shall apply as if the defendant had made a gift of such share in the 
property as bears to the whole property the same proportion as the 
difference between the values referred to in paragraph (a) bears to 
the value of the consideration provided by the defendant. 
Confiscation orders 
5. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a confiscation order may be made by a 
Magistrate or a Judge of the High Court. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) Where a confiscation order is made pursuant to subsection (1) by a 
Magistrate, it shall relate in monetary terms to a sum not exceeding $100,000. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) Where on the evidence before him or her, a Magistrate concludes that 
a confiscation order to be made by him or her will, or is likely to exceed the sum 
allowable under subsection (2), he or she shall, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary contained in any enactment— 
(a) proceed to sentence the defendant, if the defendant is not already 
sentenced; and 
12 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) commit the defendant to a Judge of the High Court for a 
confiscation order to be made in respect of the defendant. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (4) Where a person appears before a court, whether on committal under 
subsection (3) or otherwise, to be sentenced in respect of one or more drug 
trafficking offences, the court shall act as follows— 
(a) the court shall first determine whether he or she has benefitted 
from drug trafficking and for the purposes of this Act, a person 
who has at any time (whether before or after the coming into 
operation of this Act) received any payment or other pecuniary or 
other quantifiable advantage in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by him, her, or another has benefitted from drug 
trafficking;  
(b) if the court determines that he or she has so benefitted, the court 
shall, before sentencing or otherwise dealing with him or her in 
respect of the offence or, as the case may be, any of the offences 
concerned, determine in accordance with section 10 the amount to 
be recovered in his or her case by virtue of this section; 
(c) with respect to paragraph (b), the court shall exclude in the 
determination any property that is subject to a cash forfeiture 
order or a forfeiture order under the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) 
Act, Drug Trafficking Offences Act, the Anti-terrorism (Financial 
and Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order or any other 
enactment; and (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(d) The court shall then, in respect of the offence or offences 
concerned— 
 (i) order him or her to pay that amount; 
 (ii) take account of the order before— 
(A) imposing any fine on him or her; 
(B) making an order involving any payment by him or her, 
other than an order under section 27 of the Criminal Code; 
or (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(C) making any order under section 29 of the Drugs 
(Prevention of Misuse) Act; and 
(iii) subject to sub-paragraph (ii), leave the order out of account in 
determining the appropriate sentence or other manner of 
dealing with the defendant. 
 (5) No law restricting the power of a court dealing with an offender in a 
particular way from dealing with him or her also in any other way, shall by 
reason only of the making of an order under this section, restrict the court from 
dealing with an offender in any way the court considers appropriate in respect of 
a drug trafficking offence. 
 (6) In determining any question arising under this Act as to whether a 
person has benefitted from drug trafficking or the amount to be recovered in his 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
13 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
or her case, proof shall be established on a balance of probabilities. (Substituted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
Postponed determinations 
6. (1) Where the court is acting under section 5 but considers that it requires 
further information before determining— 
(a) whether the defendant has benefitted from drug trafficking; or 
(b) the amount to be recovered in the defendant’s case, 
it may, for the purpose of enabling that information to be obtained, postpone 
making that determination for such period as it may specify. 
 (2) More than one postponement may be made under subsection (1) in 
relation to the same case. 
 (3) Unless it is satisfied that there are exceptional circumstances, the 
court shall not specify a period under subsection (1) which by itself or, where 
there have been one or more previous postponements under subsection (1) or (4), 
when taken together with the earlier specified period or periods, exceeds 18 
months beginning with the date of conviction. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (4) Where the defendant appeals against his or her conviction, the court 
may, on that account— 
(a) postpone making any of the determinations mentioned in 
subsection (1) for such period as it may specify; or 
(b) where it has already exercised its powers under this section to 
postpone, extend the specified period. 
 (5) A postponement or extension under subsection (1) or (4) may be 
made— 
(a) on application by the defendant or the prosecutor; or 
(b) by the court of its own motion. 
 (6) Unless the court is satisfied that there are exceptional circumstances, 
any postponement or extension under subsection (4) shall not exceed the period 
ending 3 months after the date on which the appeal is determined or otherwise 
disposed of. 
 (7) Where the court exercises its power under subsection (1) or (4), it 
may nevertheless proceed to sentence, or otherwise deal with the defendant in 
respect of the offence or any of the offences concerned. 
 (8) Where the court proceeds under subsection (7), section 5 shall have 
effect as if— 
(a) in subsection (4)(b) thereof, the words from “ before sentencing” 
to “offences concerned,” were omitted; and 
(b) in subsection (4)(a)(iii) thereof, after “determining” there were 
inserted the words “in relation to any offence in respect of which 
he or she has not been sentenced or otherwise dealt with”. 
14 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (9) In sentencing, or otherwise dealing with the defendant in respect of 
the offence, or any of the offences concerned at any time during the specified 
period, the court shall not— 
(a) impose any fine on him or her; or 
(b) make any such order as is mentioned in section 5(4)(c)(ii)(B) or 
(C). 
(10) In this section, a reference to— 
(a) an appeal includes a reference to an application under section 167 
of the Magistrate’s Code of Procedure Act; 
(b) the date of conviction means— 
 (i) the date on which the defendant was convicted; or 
 (ii) where the defendant appeared to be sentenced in respect of 
more than one conviction, and those convictions were not all 
on the same date, the date of the latest of those convictions. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Assessing the proceeds of drug trafficking 
7. (1) For the purposes of this Act— 
(a) any payments or other pecuniary or quantifiable advantage 
received by a person at any time (whether before or after the 
coming into operation of this Act) in connection with drug 
trafficking carried on by him, her or another are his or her 
proceeds of drug trafficking; and 
(b) the value of his or her proceeds of drug trafficking is the 
aggregate of the values of the payments or other pecuniary or 
quantifiable advantage.  
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) The court shall, for the purpose of determining whether the defendant 
has benefitted from drug trafficking and, if he or she has, of assessing the value 
of his or her proceeds of drug trafficking, make the required assumption. 
(Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (3) The court shall not make any required assumption if— 
(a) that assumption is shown to be incorrect in the defendant’s case; 
or 
(b) the court is satisfied that there would be a serious risk of injustice 
in his or her case if the assumption were to be made. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (4) Where the court does not apply one or more of the required 
assumptions, it shall state its reasons. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (5) The required assumptions are— 
(a) that any property appearing to the court— 
 (i) to have been held by the defendant  at any time since his or 
her conviction; or 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
15 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (ii) to have been transferred to him or her at any time since the 
beginning of the period of 6 years ending when the 
proceedings were instituted against him or her, 
was received by him or her, at the earliest time at which he or she appears to the 
court to have held it, as a payment or reward in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by him or her; 
(b) that any expenditure of his or hers since the beginning of that 
period was met out of payments received by him or her in 
connection with drug trafficking carried on by him or her; and 
(c) that, for the purpose of valuing any property received or assumed 
to have been received by him or her at any time as such a reward, 
he or she received the property free of any other interest in it. 
(Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (6) Subsection (2) does not apply if the only drug trafficking offence in 
respect of which the defendant appears before the court to be sentenced is an 
offence under section 33 or 34 or section 13 of the Criminal Justice 
(International Co-operation) Act. (Amended by Acts 8 of 1993 and 5 of 2000) 
 (7) For the purpose of assessing the value of the defendant’s proceeds of 
drug trafficking in a case where a confiscation order has previously been made 
against him or her, the court shall leave out of account any of his or her proceeds 
of drug trafficking that are shown to the court to have been taken into account in 
determining the amount to be recovered under that order. 
Statements relating to drug trafficking 
8. (1) Where the prosecutor asks the court to proceed under section 5 or 
applies to the court under section 11, 13, 14 or 15 he or she shall give the court, 
within such period as it may direct, a statement of matters which he or she 
considers relevant in connection with— 
(a) determining whether the defendant has benefitted from drug 
trafficking; or 
(b) assessing the value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug 
trafficking. 
 (2)  In this section such a statement is referred to as a “prosecutor’s 
statement”. 
 (3) Where the court proceeds under section 5 without the prosecutor 
having asked it to do so, it may require him or her to give it a prosecutor’s 
statement, within such period as it may direct. 
 (4) Where the prosecutor has given a prosecutor’s statement— 
(a) he or she may at any time give the court a further such statement; 
and 
(b) the court may at any time require him or her to give it a further 
such statement, within such period as it may direct. 
 (5) Where any prosecutor’s statement has been given and the court is 
satisfied that a copy of the statement has been served on the defendant, it may 
require the defendant— 
16 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) to indicate to it, within such period as it may direct, the extent to 
which he or she accepts each allegation in the statement; and 
(b) so far as he or she does not accept any such allegation, to give 
particulars of any matters on which he or she proposes to rely. 
 (6) Where the court has given a direction under this section, it may at any 
time vary it by giving a further direction. 
 (7) Where the defendant accepts to any extent any allegation in any 
prosecutor’s statement, the court may, for the purposes of— 
(a) determining whether the defendant has benefitted from drug 
trafficking; or 
(b) assessing the value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug 
trafficking, 
treat his or her acceptance as conclusive of the matters to which it relates. 
(Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (8) If the defendant fails in any respect to comply with a requirement 
under subsection (5), he or she may be treated for the purposes of this section as 
accepting every allegation in the prosecutor’s statement in question apart from— 
(a) any allegation in respect of which he or she has complied with the 
requirement; and 
(b) any allegation that he or she has benefitted from drug trafficking 
or that any payment or other reward was received by him or her in 
connection with drug trafficking carried on by him, her or 
another. 
(Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (9) Where— 
(a) there is tendered to the court by the defendant a statement as to 
any matters relevant to determining the amount that might be 
realised at the time the confiscation order is made; and 
(b) the prosecutor accepts to any extent any allegation in the 
statement, 
the court may, for the purposes of that determination, treat the acceptance by the 
prosecutor as conclusive of the matters to which it relates. 
(10) An allegation may be accepted, or particulars of any matter may be 
given, for the purposes of this section in such manner as may be prescribed by 
the rules of court or as the court may direct. (Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(11) No acceptance by the defendant under this section that any payment 
or other reward was received by him or her in connection with drug trafficking 
carried on by him, her or another shall be admissible in evidence in any 
proceeding for an offence. 
Provision of information by defendant 
9. (1) This section applies where— 
(a) the prosecutor has asked the court to proceed under section 5 or 
has applied to the court under section 13, 14 or 15; or 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
17 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(b) no such request has been made, but the court is nevertheless 
proceeding, or considering, whether to proceed, under section 5. 
 (2) For the purpose of obtaining information to assist it in carrying out its 
functions, the court may at any time order the defendant to give it such 
information as may be specified in the order. 
 (3) An order under subsection (2) may require all, or any specified part, 
of the required information to be given to the court in such manner, and before 
such date, as may be specified in the order. 
 (4) Rules of court may make provision as to the maximum or minimum 
period that may be allowed under subsection (3). 
 (5) If the defendant fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with any 
order under this section, the court may draw such inference from that failure as it 
considers appropriate. 
 (6) Where the prosecutor accepts to any extent any allegation made by 
the defendant in giving to the court information required by an order under this 
section, the court may treat that acceptance as conclusive of the matters to which 
it relates. 
 (7) For the purpose of this section, an allegation may be accepted in such 
manner as may be prescribed by rules of court or as the court may direct.  
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Amount to be recovered under confiscation order 
10. (1) Subject to subsection (3), the amount to be recovered in the 
defendant’s case under the confiscation order shall be the amount the court 
assesses to be the value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug trafficking. 
 (2) If the court is satisfied as to any matter relevant for determining the 
amount that might be realised at the time the confiscation order is made (whether 
by an acceptance under section 8 or otherwise), the court may issue a certificate 
giving the court’s opinion as to the matters concerned and shall do so if satisfied 
as mentioned in subsection (3). 
 (3) If the court is satisfied that the amount that might be realised at the 
time the confiscation order is made is less than the amount the court assesses to 
be the value of his or her proceeds of drug trafficking, the amount to be 
recovered in the defendant’s case under the confiscation order shall be— 
(a) the amount appearing to the court to be the amount that might be 
so realised; or (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(b) a nominal amount, where it appears to the court, (on the 
information available to it at the time), that the amount that might 
be so realised is nil. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Powers to be exercised where defendant has died or absconded 
11. (1) Subsection (2) applies where a person has been convicted of one or 
more drug trafficking offences. 
18 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (2) If the prosecutor asks it to proceed under this section, the court may 
make a confiscation order against the defendant if satisfied that the defendant has 
died or absconded. 
 (3) Subsection (4) applies where proceedings for one or more drug 
trafficking offences have been instituted against a person but have not been 
concluded. 
 (4) If the prosecutor asks it to proceed under this section, the court may 
make a confiscation order against the defendant if satisfied that the defendant has 
absconded. 
 (5) The power conferred by subsection (4) may not be exercised at any 
time before the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the date which is, in 
the opinion of the court, the date on which the defendant absconded. 
 (6) In any proceedings on an application under this section— 
(a) sections 7(2) and 8(5), (7) and (8) shall not apply; 
(b) the court shall not make a confiscation order against a person who 
has absconded unless it is satisfied that the prosecutor has taken 
reasonable steps to contact him or her; and 
(c) any person appearing to the court to be likely to be affected by the 
making of a confiscation order by the court shall be entitled to 
appear before the court and make representations. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Effect of conviction where the court has acted under section 11 
12. (1) Where the court has made a confiscation order by virtue of section 11, 
it shall, in respect to the offence or any of the offences concerned— 
(a) take account of the order before— 
 (i) imposing any fine on him or her; 
 (ii) making any order involving any payment by him or her; or 
(iii) making any order under section 29 of the Drugs (Prevention 
of Misuse) Act; and 
(b) subject to paragraph (a), leave the order out of account in 
determining the appropriate sentence or other manner of dealing 
with the defendant. 
 (2) Where the court has made a confiscation order by virtue of section 11 
and the defendant subsequently appears before the court to be sentenced in 
respect of one or more of the offences concerned, section 5(1) shall not apply so 
far as his or her appearance is in respect of that offence or those offences. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Reconsideration of case where court has not proceeded under section 5 
13. (1) This section applies where the defendant has appeared before the 
court to be sentenced in respect of one or more drug trafficking offences but the 
court has not proceeded under section 5. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
19 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (2) If the prosecutor has evidence— 
(a) which was not available to him or her when the defendant 
appeared to be sentenced (and accordingly was not considered by 
the court); but (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) which the prosecutor believes would have led the court to 
determine that the defendant had benefitted from drug trafficking 
if— 
 (i) the prosecutor had asked the court to proceed under section 5; 
and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (ii) the evidence been considered by the court, 
he or she may apply to the court for it to consider the evidence. 
 (3) The court shall proceed under section 5 if, having considered the 
evidence, it is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so. 
 (4) In considering whether it is appropriate to proceed under section 5, 
the court shall have regard to all the circumstances of the case. 
 (5) Where, having decided to proceed under section 5, the court proposes 
to make a confiscation order against the defendant, it shall order the payment of 
such amount as it thinks just in all the circumstances of the case. 
 (6) In considering the circumstances of any case the court shall have 
regard, in particular, to the amount of any fine imposed on the defendant in 
respect of the offence or offences in question. 
 (7) Where the court is proceeding under section 5, by virtue of this 
section, subsection (4)(b) of that section shall have effect as if the words “before 
sentencing or otherwise dealing with him or her in respect of the offence or, as 
the case may be, any of the offences concerned,” were omitted. 
 (8) The court may take into account any payment or other reward 
received by the defendant on or after the date of conviction, but only if the 
prosecutor shows that it was received by the defendant in connection with drug 
trafficking carried on by the defendant or another on or before that date. 
 (9) In considering any evidence under this section which relates to any 
payment or reward to which subsection (8) applies, the court shall not make the 
assumptions which would otherwise be required by section 7. 
(10) No application shall be entertained by the court under this section if it 
is made after the end of the period of 6 years beginning with the date of 
conviction. 
(11) In this section “the date of conviction” means— 
(a) the date on which the defendant was convicted; or 
(b) where he or she appeared to be sentenced in respect of more than 
one conviction, and those convictions were not all on the same 
date, the date of the latest of those convictions. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
20 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Re-assessment of whether defendant has benefitted from drug 
trafficking 
14. (1) This section applies where the court has made a determination 
(referred to in this section as “the original determination”) under section 5(4)(a) 
that the defendant has not benefitted from drug trafficking. 
 (2) If the prosecutor has evidence— 
(a) which was not considered by the court in making the original 
determination; but 
(b) which the prosecutor believes would have led the court to 
determine that the defendant had benefitted from drug trafficking 
if it had been considered by the court, 
he or she may apply to the court for it to consider that evidence. 
 (3) If, having considered the evidence, the court is satisfied that it would 
have determined that the defendant had benefitted from drug trafficking if that 
evidence had been available to it, the court— 
(a) shall— 
 (i) make a fresh determination under section 5(4)(a); 
 (ii) make a determination under subsection (4)(b) of that section 
of the amount to be recovered by virtue of that section; and 
(b) may make an order under that section. 
 (4) Where the court is proceeding under section 5, by virtue of this 
section, subsection (4)(b) of that section shall have effect as if the words “before 
sentencing or otherwise dealing with him or her in respect of the offence or, as 
the case may be, any of the offences concerned” were omitted. 
 (5) The court may take into account any payment or other reward 
received by the defendant on or after the date of the original determination, but 
only if the prosecutor shows that it was received by the defendant in connection 
with drug trafficking carried on by the defendant or another on or before that 
date. 
 (6) In considering any evidence under this section which relates to any 
payment or reward to which subsection (5) applies, the court shall not make the 
assumptions which would otherwise be required by section 7. 
 (7) Where the court— 
(a) has been asked to proceed under section 11 in relation to a 
defendant who has absconded; but 
(b) has decided not to make a confiscation order against him or her, 
this section shall not apply at any time while he or she remains an absconder. 
 (8) No application shall be entertained by the court under this section if it 
is made after the end of the period of 6 years beginning with— 
(a) the date on which the defendant was convicted; or 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
21 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(b) where he or she appeared to be sentenced in respect of more than 
one conviction, and those convictions were not all on the same 
date, the date of the latest of those convictions. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Revision of assessment of proceeds of drug trafficking 
15. (1) This section applies where the court has made a determination 
(referred to in this section as “the current determination”) under section 5(4)(b) 
of the amount to be recovered in a particular case by virtue of that section. 
 (2) Where the prosecutor is of the opinion that the real value of the 
defendant’s proceeds of drug trafficking was greater than their assessed value, 
the prosecutor may apply to the court for the evidence on which the prosecutor 
has formed his or her opinion to be considered by the court. 
 (3) In subsection (2)— 
“assessed value” means the value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug trafficking 
as assessed by the court under section 10(1); and 
“real value” means the value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug trafficking 
which took place— 
(a) in the period by reference to which the current determination was 
made; or 
(b) in any earlier period. 
 (4) If, having considered the evidence, the court is satisfied that the real 
value of the defendant’s proceeds of drug trafficking is greater than their 
assessed value (whether because the real value was higher at the time of the 
current determination than was thought or because the value of the proceeds in 
question has subsequently increased), the court shall make a fresh determination 
under section 5(4)(b) of the amount to be recovered by virtue of that section. 
 (5) Where the court is proceeding under section 5, by virtue of this 
section, subsection (4)(b) of that section shall have effect as if the words “before 
sentencing or otherwise dealing with him or her in respect of the offence or, as 
the case may be, any of the offences concerned” were omitted. 
 (6) Any determination under section 5(4)(b), by virtue of this section, 
shall be by reference to the amount that might be realised at the time when the 
determination is made. 
 (7) For any determination under section 5(4)(b), by virtue of this section, 
section 7(5) shall not apply in relation to any of the defendant’s proceeds of drug 
trafficking taken into account in respect of the current determination. 
 (8) In relation to any such determination— 
(a) section 4(7), 8(9)(a) and 10(2) shall have effect as if for 
“confiscation order” there were substituted “determination”; 
(b) section 10(3) shall have effect as if for “confiscation order is 
made” there were substituted “determination is made”; and 
(c) section 4(3) shall have effect as if for “a confiscation order is 
made against the defendant” there were substituted “of the 
determination”. 
22 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (9) The court may take into account any payment or other reward 
received by the defendant on or after the date of the current determination, but 
only if the prosecutor shows that it was received by the defendant in connection 
with drug trafficking carried on by the defendant or another on or before that 
date. 
(10) In considering any evidence under this section which relates to any 
payment or reward to which subsection (9) applies, the court shall not make the 
assumptions which would otherwise be required by section 7. 
(11) If, as a result of making the fresh determination required by 
subsection (4), the amount to be recovered exceeds the amount set by the current 
determination, the court may substitute for the amount to be recovered under the 
confiscation order which was made by reference to the current determination, 
such greater amount as it thinks just in all the circumstances of the case. 
(12) Where a confiscation order has been made in relation to the defendant 
by virtue of section 11, this section shall not apply at any time while he or she  is 
an absconder. 
(13) No application shall be entertained by the court under this section if it 
is made after the end of the period of 6 years beginning with— 
(a) the date on which the defendant was convicted; or 
(b) where he or she appeared to be sentenced in respect of more than 
one conviction, and those convictions were not all on the same 
date, the date of the latest of those convictions. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Application of procedure for enforcing fines 
16. (1) Where the court orders the defendant to pay any amount under  
section 5, the order shall have effect as if that amount was a fine and the amount 
may be recovered in the same way as a fine may be recovered. 
 (2) Where the whole or any part of an amount ordered to be paid remains 
unpaid after such period as the court may determine, the defendant shall be 
sentenced to imprisonment in accordance with the following table— 
Where the amount does not exceed $10,000………………. 
Where the amount exceeds $10,000 but does not exceed 
$20,000……………………………………………………... 
6 months 
 
12 months 
Where the amount exceeds $20,000 but does not exceed 
$200,000……………………………………………………. 
 
18 months 
Where the amount exceeds $200,000 but does not exceed 
$400,000……………………………………………………. 
 
2 years 
Where the amount exceeds $400,000 but does not exceed 
$1,000,000………………………………………………….. 
 
3 years 
Where the amount exceeds $1,000,000 but does not  
exceed $4,000,000…………………………………………. 
 
5 years 
Where the amount exceeds $4,000,000……………………. 
10 years. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
23 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (3) Where— 
(a) a warrant of committal is issued for a default in payment of an 
amount ordered to be paid under section 5 in respect of an offence 
or offences; and 
(b) at the time the warrant is issued, the defendant is liable to serve a 
custodial sentence in respect of the offences, 
the term of imprisonment to be served in default of payment of the amount shall 
not begin to run until after the expiry of the term mentioned in paragraph (b). 
 (4) The reference in subsection (3) to the custodial sentence which the 
defendant is liable to serve in respect of the offence or offences is a reference to 
the term of imprisonment which he or she is liable to serve in respect of the 
offence or offences and consecutive terms and terms which are wholly or partly 
concurrent shall be treated as a single term. 
 (5) Where the defendant serves a term of imprisonment in default of 
paying any amount due under a confiscation order, his or her serving of that term 
does not prevent the confiscation order from continuing to have effect, so far as 
any other method of enforcement is concerned. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Cases in which restraint orders and charging orders may be made 
17. (1) The powers conferred on the court by sections 18 and 19 are 
exercisable where— 
(a) proceedings have been instituted in the Territory against the 
defendant for a drug trafficking offence or an application has been 
made by the prosecutor in respect of the defendant under section 
15 of the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) Act, or 
section 11, 13, 14, or 15;  
(b) the proceedings have not, or the application has not, been 
concluded; and 
(c) the court is satisfied that there is reasonable cause to believe; 
 (i) in the case of an application under section 15 or section 15 of 
the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) Act, that the 
court will be satisfied as mentioned in section 15 or, as the 
case may be, section 15(2) of that Act; or 
 (ii) in any other case, that the defendant has benefitted from drug 
trafficking.  
(Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (2) The powers conferred on the court by sections 18 and 19 are also 
exercisable where— 
(a) the court is satisfied that, whether by the laying of an information 
or otherwise, a person is to be charged with a drug trafficking 
offence or that an application of a kind mentioned in subsection 
(1)(a) is to be made in respect of the defendant; and 
(b) the court is also satisfied as mentioned in subsection (1)(c); 
(Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
24 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (3) For the purposes of sections 18 and 19, at any time when those 
powers are exercisable before proceedings have been instituted— 
(a) references in this Act to the defendant shall be construed as 
references to the person referred to in subsection (2)(a); 
(b) references in this Act to the prosecutor shall be construed as 
references to the person who the court is satisfied is to have the 
conduct of the proposed proceedings; and 
(c) references in this Act to realisable property shall be construed as 
if, immediately before that time, proceedings had been instituted 
against the person referred to in subsection (2)(a) for a drug 
trafficking offence. 
 (4) Where the court has made an order under section 18 or 19 by virtue of 
subsection (2), the court shall discharge the order if the proposed proceedings are 
not instituted within such time as the court considers reasonable. 
 (5) Where the court has made an order under section 18(1) or 19(1) in 
relation to a proposed application by virtue of subsection (2) herein, the court 
shall discharge the order if the application is not made within such time as the 
court considers reasonable. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (6) The court shall not exercise the powers under section 18(1) or 19(1) 
by virtue of subsection (1) herein, if it is satisfied that— 
(a) there has been undue delay in continuing the proceedings or 
application in question; or 
(b) the prosecutor does not intend to proceed. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Restraint orders 
18. (1) The court may by order (in this Act referred to as a “restraint order”) 
prohibit any person from dealing with any realisable property, subject to such 
conditions and exceptions as may be specified in the order. 
 (2) A restraint order may apply— 
(a) to all realisable property held by a specified person, whether the 
property is described in the order or not; and  
(b) to realisable property held by a specified person, being property 
transferred to him or her after making of the order.  
 (3) This section shall not have effect in relation to any property for the 
time being subject to a charge under section 19. 
 (4) A restraint order— 
(a) may be made only on an application by the prosecutor; (Amended 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) may be made on an ex parte application to a Judge or Magistrate 
in chambers; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(c) shall provide for notice to be given to persons affected by the 
order. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
25 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (5) A restraint order— 
(a) may be discharged or varied in relation to any property; and 
(b) shall be discharged on the conclusion of the proceedings or of the 
application in question. (Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (6) An application for the discharge or variation of a restraint order may 
be made by any person affected by it. 
 (7) Where the court has made a restraint order, the court may at any time 
appoint a receiver— 
(a) to take possession of any realisable property; and 
(b) in accordance with the court’s directions, to manage or otherwise 
deal with the property in respect of which he or she is appointed, 
subject to such conditions and exceptions as may be specified by the court; and 
may require any person having possession of property in respect of which a 
receiver is appointed under this section to give possession of the property to the 
receiver. 
 (8) For the purposes of this section, dealing with property held by any 
person includes (without prejudice to the generality of the expression)— 
(a) where a debt is owed to that person, making a payment to any 
person in reduction of the amount of the debt; and 
(b) removing property from the Territory. 
 (9) Where the court has made a restraint order, a police officer may for 
the purpose of preventing any realisable property being removed from the 
Territory seize the property. 
(10) Property seized under subsection (9) shall be dealt with in accordance 
with the court’s directions. 
(11) The Title by Registration Act and the Registered Land Ordinance, 
shall apply— 
(a) in relation to restraint orders, as they apply in relation to orders 
affecting land made by the court for the purpose of enforcing 
judgments or recognisances; and 
(b) in relation to applications for restraint orders, as they apply in 
relation to other pending land actions. 
(12) The prosecutor shall be treated for the purposes of section 124 of the 
Registered Land Ordinance (inhibitions) as a person interested in relation to any 
registered land to which a restraint order or an application for such an order 
relates.  
Charging orders in respect of land, securities etc. 
19. (1) The court may make a charging order on realisable property for 
securing the payment to the Crown— 
(a) where a confiscation order has not been made, of an amount equal 
to the value from time to time of the property charged; and  
26 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) in any other case, of an amount not exceeding the amount payable 
under the confiscation order.  
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a charging order is an order made under 
this section imposing on any such realisable property as may have been specified 
in the order a charge for securing the payment of money to the Crown. 
 (3) A charging order— 
(a) may be made only on an application by the prosecutor; (Amended 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) may be made on an ex parte application to a Judge in chambers; 
(c) shall provide for notice to be given to persons affected by the 
order; and  
(d) may be made subject to such conditions as the court thinks fit and, 
without prejudice to the generality of this paragraph, such 
conditions as it thinks fit as to the time when the charge is to 
become effective. 
 (4) Subject to subsection (6), a charge may be imposed by a charging 
order only on— 
(a) any interest in realisable property, being an interest held 
beneficially by the defendant or by a person to whom the 
defendant has directly or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act 
in any asset of a kind mentioned in subsection (5); or 
(b) any interest in realisable property held by a person as trustee of a 
trust if the interest is in such an asset, or is an interest under 
another trust and a charge may by virtue of paragraph (a) be 
imposed by a charging order on the whole beneficial interest 
under the first-mentioned trust. 
 (5) The assets referred to in subsection (4) are— 
(a) land in the Territory; or 
(b) securities of any of the following kinds— 
 (i) Government stock; 
 (ii) stock of any body (other than a building society) incorporated 
within the Territory; 
(iii) stock of any body incorporated outside the Territory, being 
stock registered in a register kept within the Territory; 
(iv) units of any unit trust in respect of which a register of the unit 
holders is kept within the Territory. 
 (6) In any case where a charge is imposed by a charging order on any 
interest in an asset of a kind mentioned in subsection (5)(b), the court may 
provide for the charge to extend to any interest or dividend payable in respect of 
that asset. 
 (7) In relation to a charging order, the court— 
(a) may make an order discharging or varying it; and 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
27 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(b) shall make an order discharging it— 
 (i) on the conclusion of the proceedings or of the application in 
question; or 
 (ii) on payment into court of the amount payment of which is 
secured by the charge. (Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (8) An application for the discharge or variation of a charging order may 
be made by any person affected by it. 
Charging orders: supplementary provisions 
20. Subject to any provision made under section 21 or by rules of court, a 
charge imposed by a charging order shall have the like effect and shall be 
enforceable in the same courts and in the same manner as an equitable charge 
created by the person holding the beneficial interest or, as the case may be, the 
trustees by writing under their hand. 
Realisation of property 
21. (1) Where a confiscation order— 
(a) has been made under this Act; 
(b) is not satisfied; and 
(c) is not subject to appeal, 
the court may, on application by the prosecutor, exercise the powers conferred 
by subsections (2) to (6). 
(Substituted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (2) The court may appoint a receiver in respect of realisable property. 
 (3) The court may empower a receiver appointed under subsection (2), 
under section 18 or in pursuance of a charging order— 
(a) to enforce any charge imposed under section 19 on realisable 
property or on interest or dividends payable in respect of such 
property; and 
(b) in relation to any realisable property other than property for the 
time being subject to a charge under section 19, to take 
possession of the property subject to such conditions or 
exceptions as may be specified by the court. 
 (4) The court may order any person having possession of realisable 
property to give possession of it to any such receiver. 
 (5) The court may empower any such receiver to realise any realisable 
property in such manner as the court may direct. 
 (6) The court may order any person holding an interest in realisable 
property to make such payment to the receiver in respect of any beneficial 
interest held by the defendant or, as the case may be, the recipient of a gift 
caught by this Act as the court may direct and the court may on the payment 
being made, by order transfer, grant or extinguish any interest in the property. 
28 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (7) Subsections (4) to (6) do not apply to property for the time being 
subject to a charge under section 19. 
 (8) The court shall not in respect of any property exercise the powers 
conferred by subsections (3)(a), (5) or (6) unless a reasonable opportunity has 
been given for persons holding any interest in the property to make 
representations to the court. 
Application of proceeds of realisation and other sums 
22. (1) Subject to subsection (2), the following sums in the hands of a 
receiver appointed under section 18 or 19 or in pursuance of a charging order, 
that is— 
(a) the proceeds of the enforcement of any charge imposed under 
section 19; 
(b) the proceeds of the realisation, other than by the enforcement of 
such a charge, of any property under section 18 or 21; and 
(c) any other sums, being property held by the defendant, 
shall, first be applied in payment of such expenses incurred by a person acting as 
a receiver or a liquidator as are payable under section 27(2) and then shall after 
such payments (if any) as the court may direct have been made out of those 
sums, be applied on the defendant’s behalf towards the satisfaction of the 
confiscation order.  
 (2) Where a fixed amount is payable under the external confiscation order 
and after that amount has been fully paid, any such sums remain in the hands of 
such a receiver, the receiver shall distribute those sums— 
(a) amongst those who held property which has been realised under 
this Act; and 
(b) in such proportions, 
as the court may direct after giving a reasonable opportunity for such persons to 
make representations to the court. 
 (3) The receipt of any sum by the Registrar of the court on account of an 
amount payable under a confiscation order shall reduce the amount so payable, 
but the Registrar of the court shall apply the money received for the purposes 
specified in this section and in the order so specified.  
 (4) The Registrar of the court shall first pay any expenses incurred by a 
person acting as a receiver or a liquidator and payable under section 27(2) but 
not already paid under subsection (1). 
 (5) If the money was paid to the Registrar of the court by a receiver 
appointed under section 18 or 21 or in pursuance of a charging order, the 
Registrar of the court shall next pay the receiver’s remuneration and expenses. 
 (6) After making— 
(a) any payment required by subsection (4); and 
(b) in a case to which subsection (5) applies, any payment required by 
that subsection, 
the Registrar of the court shall reimburse any amount paid under section 27(2). 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
29 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (7) Any balance in the hands of the Registrar of the court after he or she 
has made all payments required by the foregoing provisions of this section shall 
be treated as if it were a fine imposed by the court.  
 (8) The receipt, payment or reimbursement by the Registrar of the court 
of any sums or expenses under this section shall, in relation to the Magistrate’s 
Court, be construed to refer to the Magistrate or to such other person of his or 
her staff as may be appointed in that regard to assist the Magistrate. (Inserted by 
Act 2 of 2008) 
Exercise of powers by court or receiver 
23. (1) The following provisions apply to the powers conferred on the court 
by sections 18 to 22, or on a receiver appointed under section 18 or 21 or in 
pursuance of a charging order.  
 (2) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the powers shall be 
exercised with a view to making available for satisfying the confiscation order, 
or, as the case may be, any confiscation order that may be made in the 
defendant’s case, the value for the time being of realisable property held by any 
person by the realisation of such property. 
 (3) In the case of realisable property held by a person to whom the 
defendant has directly or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act, the powers 
shall be exercised with a view to realising no more than the value for the time 
being of the gift. 
 (4) The powers shall be exercised with a view to allowing any person 
other than the defendant or the recipient of any such gift to retain or recover the 
value of any property held by him or her. 
 (5) An order may be made or other action taken in respect of a debt owed 
by the Crown. 
 (6) In exercising those powers, no account shall be taken of any 
obligations of the defendant or of the recipient of any such gift which conflict 
with the obligation to satisfy the confiscation order. 
Variation of confiscation orders 
24. (1) If, on an application by the defendant or a receiver appointed under 
section 18 or 21, or in pursuance of a charging order, made in respect of a 
confiscation order, the court is satisfied that the realisable property is inadequate 
for the payment of any amount remaining to be recovered under the order the 
court shall issue a certificate to that effect, giving the court’s reasons. (Amended 
by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)— 
(a) in the case of realisable property held by a person who has been 
adjudged bankrupt or whose estate has been sequestrated, the  
court shall take into account the extent to which any property held 
by him or her may be distributed among the creditors; and 
(b) the court may disregard any inadequacy in the realisable property 
which appears to the court to be attributable wholly or partly to 
anything done by the defendant for the purpose of preserving any 
property held by a person to whom the defendant had directly or 
30 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
indirectly made a gift caught by this Act from any risk of 
realisation under this Act. 
 (3) Where a certificate has been issued under subsection (1), the person 
who applied for it may apply to the court for the amount to be recovered under 
the order to be reduced. (Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (4) The court shall, on an application under subsection (3)— 
(a) substitute for the amount to be recovered under the order such 
lesser amount as the court thinks just in all the circumstances of 
the case; and 
(b) substitute, if necessary, the appropriate term of imprisonment in 
accordance with the provisions of section 16. 
 (5) Rules of court may make provision— 
(a) for the giving of notice of any application under this section; and 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
(b) for any person appearing to the court to be likely to be affected by 
any exercise of its powers under this section to be given an 
opportunity to make representations to the court. (Inserted by Act 5 
of 2000) 
Bankruptcy of defendant, etc. 
25. (1) Where a person who holds realisable property is adjudged bankrupt— 
(a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made 
before the order adjudging him or her bankrupt; and 
(b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 18(6) or 
21(5) or (6) for the time being in the hands of a receiver 
appointed under section 18 or 21, 
is excluded from the property of the bankrupt for the purposes of the Insolvency 
Act. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) Where a person has been adjudged bankrupt, the powers conferred on 
the court by sections 18 to 22 or on a receiver so appointed shall not be exercised 
in relation to— 
(a) property of the bankrupt for the time being for the purposes of the 
Insolvency Act; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) property which is to be applied for the benefit of creditors of the 
bankrupt by virtue of a condition imposed pursuant to the 
Insolvency Act. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order— 
(a) made before the order adjudging the person bankrupt; or 
(b) on property which was subject to a restraint order when the order 
adjudging him or her bankrupt was made. 
 (4) Where, in the case of a debtor, a receiver or liquidator is appointed in 
his or her case or in relation to him or her under the Insolvency Act and any 
property of the debtor is subject to a restraint order, the powers conferred on the 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
31 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
receiver or liquidator by virtue of that Act shall not apply to property for the time 
being subject to the restraint order. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (5) Where a person is adjudged bankrupt and has directly or indirectly 
made a gift caught by this Act— 
(a) no order shall be made under the Insolvency Act in respect of the 
making of the gift at any time when— 
 (i) proceedings for a drug trafficking offence have been 
instituted against him or her and have not been concluded;  
 (ii) an application has been made in respect of the defendant 
under section 11, 13, 14 or 15 or section 15 of the Criminal 
Justice (International Cooperation) Act and has not been 
concluded; or 
(b) any order made under the Insolvency Act after the conclusion of 
the proceedings or of the application shall take into account any 
realisation under this Act of property held by the person to whom 
the gift was made. 
(Amended by Acts 5 of 2000 and 2 of 2008) 
Winding up of company holding realisable property 
26. (1) Where realisable property is held by a company and an order for the 
winding up of the company has been made or a resolution has been passed by the 
company for the voluntary winding up, the functions of the liquidator (or any 
provisional liquidator) shall not be exercisable in relation to— 
(a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made 
before the relevant time; and 
(b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 18(6) or 
21(5) or (6) for the time being in the hands of a receiver 
appointed under section 18 or 21. 
 (2) Where, in the case of a company, such an order has been made or 
such a resolution has been passed, the powers conferred on the court by sections 
18 to 22 or on a receiver so appointed shall not be exercised in relation to any 
realisable property held by the company in relation to which the functions of the 
liquidator are exercisable— 
(a) so as to inhibit him or her from exercising those functions for the 
purpose of distributing any property held by the company to the 
company creditors; or 
(b) so as to prevent the payment out of any property of expenses 
(including the remuneration of the liquidator or any provisional 
liquidator) properly incurred in the winding up in respect of the 
property. 
 (3) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order 
made before the relevant time or on property which was subject to a restraint 
order at the relevant time. 
 (4) In this section— 
32 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
“company” means any company which may be wound up under the BVI 
Business Companies Act; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
“the relevant time” means— 
(a) where no order for the winding up of the company has been made, 
the time of the passing of the resolution for voluntary winding up; 
(b) where such an order has been made and, before the presentation 
of the petition for the winding up of the company by the court, 
such a resolution had been passed by the company, the time of the 
passing of the resolution; and 
(c) in any other case where such an order has been made, the time of 
the making of the order. 
Receivers and liquidators dealing with property subject to restraint 
order 
27. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of any provisions contained in the 
Insolvency Act or any other enactment, where— 
(a) a person acting as a receiver or liquidator seizes or disposes of 
any property in relation to which his or her functions are not 
exercisable because it is for the time being subject to a restraint 
order; and 
(b) at the time of the seizure or disposal he or she believes, and has 
reasonable grounds for believing, that he or she is entitled 
(whether in pursuance of an order of the court or otherwise) to 
seize or dispose of that property, 
he or she shall not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage 
resulting from the seizure or disposal except in so far as the loss or damage is 
caused by his or her negligence in so acting and a person so acting shall have a 
lien on the property, or the proceeds of its sale, for such of his or her expenses as 
were incurred in connection with the liquidation, bankruptcy or other 
proceedings in relation to which the seizure or disposal purported to take place 
and for so much of his or her remuneration as may reasonably be assigned for his 
or her acting in connection with those proceedings. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) Any person who, acting as a receiver or liquidator incurs expenses— 
(a) in respect of such property as is mentioned in subsection 1(a) and 
in so doing does not know, and has no reasonable grounds to 
believe that the property is for the time being subject to a restraint 
order; or 
(b) other than in respect of such property as is so mentioned, being 
expenses which but for the effect of a restraint order, might have 
been met by taking possession of and realising the property, 
shall be entitled (whether or not he or she has seized or disposed of that property 
so as to have a lien under that subsection) to payment of those expenses under 
section 22. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
33 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (3) In this Act, the expression “acting as a receiver or liquidator” shall be 
construed in accordance with the provisions of the Insolvency Act, and the BVI 
Business Companies Act. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
Receivers: supplementary provisions 
28. (1) Where a receiver appointed under section 18 or 21 or in pursuance of 
a charging order takes any action— 
(a) in relation to property which is not realisable property, being 
action which he or she would be entitled to take if it were such 
property; 
(b) believing, and having reasonable grounds for believing, that he or 
she is entitled to take that action in relation to that property, 
he or she shall not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage 
resulting from his or her action except in so far as the loss or damage is caused 
by his or her negligence. 
 (2) Any amount due in respect of the remuneration and expenses of a 
receiver so appointed shall be paid by the prosecutor or, in a case where 
proceedings for a drug trafficking offence are not instituted, by the person on 
whose application the receiver was appointed. 
Compensation 
29. (1) If proceedings are instituted against a person for a drug trafficking 
offence or offences and either— 
(a) the proceedings do not result in his or her conviction for any drug 
trafficking offence; or 
(b) where he or she is convicted of one or more drug trafficking 
offences— 
 (i) the conviction or convictions concerned are quashed (and no 
conviction for any drug trafficking offence is substituted); or 
 (ii) he or she is pardoned by the Governor in respect of the 
conviction or convictions concerned, 
the court may, on an application by a person who held property which was 
realisable property, order compensation to be paid to the applicant if, having 
regard to all the circumstances, it considers it appropriate to make such an order. 
 (2) The court shall not order compensation to be paid in any case unless 
the court is satisfied— 
(a) that there has been some serious default on the part of a person 
concerned in the investigation or prosecution of the offence or 
offences concerned; and (Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
(b) that the applicant has suffered substantial loss in consequence of 
anything done in relation to the property by or in pursuance of an 
order of the court under sections 18 to 21. 
 (3) The court shall not order compensation to be paid in any case where it 
appears to the court that the proceedings would have been instituted or continued 
if the serious default had not occurred. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
34 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (4) The amount of compensation to be paid under this section shall be 
such as the court thinks just in all the circumstances of the case. 
Compensation, etc. where absconder is acquitted 
30. (1) This section applies where— 
(a) the court has made a confiscation order by virtue of section 11(4); 
and 
(b) the defendant is subsequently tried for the offence or offences 
concerned and acquitted on all counts. 
 (2) The court acquitting the defendant shall cancel the confiscation order. 
 (3) The court may, on the application of a person who held property 
which was realisable property, order compensation to be paid to the applicant if 
it is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss as a result of the making of the 
confiscation order. 
 (4) The amount of compensation to be paid under this section shall be 
such as the court considers just in all the circumstances of the case. 
 (5) Rules of court may make provision— 
(a) for the giving of notice of any application under this section; and 
(b) for any person appearing to the court to be likely to be affected by 
any exercise of its powers under this section to be given an 
opportunity to make representations to the court. 
 (6) Any compensation under this section shall be paid out of the 
Consolidated Fund. 
 (7) Where the court cancels a confiscation order under this section, it may 
make such a consequential or incidental order as it considers appropriate in 
connection with the cancellation. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Power to discharge confiscation order and order compensation where 
absconder returns 
31. (1) This section applies where— 
(a) the court has made a confiscation order by virtue of section 11(4) 
in relation to an absconder; and 
(b) the defendant has ceased to be an absconder. 
 (2) The court may, on the application of the defendant, cancel the 
confiscation order if it is satisfied that— 
(a) there has been undue delay in continuing the proceedings in 
respect of which the power under section 11(4) was exercised; or 
(b) the prosecutor does not intend to proceed with the prosecution. 
 (3) Where the court cancels a confiscation order under this section it may, 
on the application of a person who held property which was realisable property, 
order compensation to be paid to the applicant if it is satisfied that the applicant 
has suffered loss as a result of the making of the confiscation order. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
35 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (4) The amount of compensation to be paid under this section shall be 
such as the court considers just in all the circumstances of the case. 
 (5) Rules of court may make provision— 
(a) for the giving of notice of any application under this section; and 
(b) for any person appearing to the court to be likely to be affected by 
any exercise of its powers under this section to be given an 
opportunity to make representations to the court. 
 (6) Any compensation under this section shall be paid out of the 
Consolidated Fund. 
 (7) Where the court cancels a confiscation order under this section, it may 
make such consequential or incidental order it considers appropriate in 
connection with the cancellation. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Variation of confiscation orders made by virtue of section 11 
32. (1) This section applies where— 
(a) the court has made a confiscation order by virtue of section 11(4); 
and 
(b) the defendant has ceased to be an absconder. 
 (2) If the defendant alleges that— 
(a) the value of his or her proceeds of drug trafficking in the period 
by reference to which the determination in question was made 
(“the original value”); or 
(b) the amount that might have been realised at the time the 
confiscation order was made, 
was less than the amount ordered to be paid under the confiscation order, he or 
she may apply to the court for it to consider his or her evidence. 
 (3) If, having considered that evidence, the court is satisfied that the 
defendant’s allegation is correct, it— 
(a) shall make a fresh determination under section 5(4); and 
(b) may, if it considers it just in all the circumstances, vary the 
amount to be recovered under the confiscation order. 
 (4) For any determination under section 5 by virtue of this section, 
section 7(5) shall not apply in relation to any of the defendant’s proceeds of drug 
trafficking taken into account in determining the original value. 
 (5) Where the court varies a confiscation order under this section— 
(a) it shall (if necessary) substitute the appropriate term of 
imprisonment in accordance with the provisions of section 16; 
and 
(b) on the application of a person who held property which was 
realisable property, it may order compensation to be paid to the 
applicant if— 
36 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (i) it is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss as a result of 
the making of the confiscation order; and 
 (ii) having regard to all the circumstances of the case, the court 
considers it to be appropriate. 
 (6) The amount of compensation to be paid under this section shall be 
such as the court considers just in all the circumstances of the case. 
 (7) Rules of court may make provision— 
(a) for the giving of notice of any application under this section; and 
(b) for any person appearing to the court to be likely to be affected by 
any exercise of its powers under this section to be given an 
opportunity to make representations to the court. 
 (8) Any compensation under this section shall be paid out of the 
Consolidated Fund. 
 (9) No application shall be entertained by the court under this section if it 
is made after the end of the period of 6 years beginning with the date on which 
the confiscation order was made. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Assisting another to retain the benefit of drug trafficking 
33. (1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a person commits an offence if he 
or she enters into or is otherwise concerned in an arrangement which he or she 
knows or suspects facilitates, whether by concealment, removal from the 
Territory, transfer to nominees or other means, the acquisition, retention, use or 
control of the proceeds of drug trafficking by or of himself or herself or by or on 
behalf of another person— 
(a) the retention or control by or on behalf of another (call him or her 
‘A’) of A’s proceeds of drug trafficking is facilitated (whether by 
concealment, removal from the jurisdiction, transfer to nominees 
or otherwise); or 
(b) A’s proceeds of drug trafficking— 
 (i) are used to secure that funds are placed at A’s disposal; or 
 (ii) are used for A’s benefit to acquire property by way of 
investment, 
knowing or suspecting that A is a person who carries on or has carried on drug 
trafficking or has benefitted from drug trafficking, is guilty of an offence. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) In this section, references to any person’s proceeds of drug trafficking 
include a reference to any property which in whole or in part directly or 
indirectly represented in his or her hands his or her proceeds of drug trafficking. 
 (3) Where a person discloses to a police officer a suspicion or belief that 
any funds, investments or other property are derived from or used in connection 
with drug trafficking or any matter on which such a suspicion or belief is 
based— 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
37 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(a) the disclosure shall not be treated as a breach of any restriction 
upon the disclosure of information imposed by statute or 
otherwise; and  
(b) if he or she does any act in contravention of subsection (1) and the 
disclosure relates to the arrangement concerned, he or she does 
not commit an offence under this section if the disclosure is made 
in accordance with this paragraph, that is— 
 (i) it is made before he or she does the act concerned, being an 
act done with the consent of the police officer in aid of a law 
enforcement function; or 
 (ii) it is made after he or she does the act, but is made on his or 
her initiative and as soon as it is reasonable for him or her to 
make it; and 
(iii) he or she had good reason for his or her failure to make the 
disclosure before he or she did the act concerned. (Inserted by 
Act 2 of 2008) 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (4) In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section, it is 
a defence to prove— 
(a) that he or she did not know or suspect that the arrangement related 
to any person’s proceeds of drug trafficking; or 
(b) that he or she did not know or suspect that by the arrangement the 
acquisition, retention, use or control by or on behalf of the other 
person mentioned in subsection (1) of any property was facilitated 
as mentioned in that subsection; or (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(c) that— 
 (i) he or she intended to disclose to a police officer such a 
suspicion, belief or matter as is mentioned in subsection (3) in 
relation to the arrangement; but 
 (ii) there is reasonable excuse for his or her failure to make 
disclosure in accordance with subsection (3)(b). 
 (5) In the case of a person who was in employment at the relevant time, 
subsections (3) and (4) shall have effect in relation to disclosures, and intended 
disclosures, to the appropriate person in accordance with the procedure 
established by his or her employer for the making of such disclosures, and 
intended disclosures, to a police officer. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (6) A police officer may disclose any information received under this 
section in relation to drug trafficking— 
(a) to any law enforcement agency in the Territory; 
(b) to the Steering Committee in connection with any offence that 
may be committed under this Act, the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct Act, or any other enactment or for the purpose of 
facilitating an investigation under this Act, the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act or other enactment; (Substituted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
38 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) to any law enforcement agency in any other country, in order— 
 (i) to report the possible commission of an offence; 
 (ii) to initiate a criminal investigation respecting the matter 
disclosed; 
(iii) to assist with any investigation or criminal proceedings 
respecting the matter disclosed; or 
(iv) to generally give effect to the purposes of this Act. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (7) Before any disclosure is made pursuant to subsection (6), the interests 
of third parties shall be considered. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (8) No member of the Steering Committee or the Agency or a police 
officer or other person concerned in law enforcement commits an offence under 
this section in respect of anything done by him or her in the course of acting in 
connection with the enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any provision of 
this Act or of any other enactment relating to drug trafficking or the proceeds of 
such drug trafficking. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (9) Any person guilty of an offence under this section is liable— 
(a) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding 15 years; and 
(b) on summary conviction, to a fine of $100,000 or where there is 
evidence of the street value of the controlled drug, three times the 
value of the controlled drug, whichever is the greater and to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years but which shall 
not be less than 5 years. 
Acquisition, possession or use of property representing proceeds of drug 
trafficking 
34. (1) A person commits an offence if— 
(a) he or she acquires, transfers or uses any property or has 
possession of it, which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly 
represents his or her proceeds of drug trafficking; or (Substituted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) knowing or suspecting that any property is, or in whole or in part 
directly or indirectly represents, another person’s proceeds of 
drug trafficking, he or she acquires, transfers or uses that property 
or has possession of it. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) It is a defence to a charge of committing an offence under this section, 
save under subsection (1)(a), that the person charged acquired, transferred or 
used the property or had possession of it for adequate consideration. (Substituted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)— 
(a) a person acquires or transfers property for inadequate 
consideration if the value of the consideration is significantly less 
than the value of the property; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
39 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(b) a person uses or has possession of property for inadequate 
consideration if the value of the consideration is significantly less 
than the value of his or her use or possession of the property. 
 (4) The provision for any person of services or goods which are of 
assistance to him or her in drug trafficking shall not be treated as consideration 
for the purposes of subsection (2). 
 (5) Where a person discloses to a police officer a suspicion or belief that 
any property is, or in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents, another 
person’s proceeds of drug trafficking, or discloses to a police officer any matter 
on which such a suspicion or belief is based— 
(a) the disclosure shall not be treated as a breach of any restriction 
upon the disclosure of information imposed by statute or 
otherwise; and 
(b) if he or she does any act in relation to the property in 
contravention of subsection (1), he or she does not commit an 
offence under this section if— 
 (i) the disclosure is made before he or she does the act concerned 
and the act is done with the consent of the police officer in aid 
of a law enforcement function; or (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (ii) the disclosure is made after he or she does the act, but on his 
or her initiative and as soon as it is reasonable for him or her 
to make it; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(iii) he or she had good reason for his or her failure to make the 
disclosure before he or she did the act concerned. (Inserted by 
Act 2 of 2008) 
 (6) For the purposes of this section, having possession of any property 
shall be taken to be doing an act in relation to it. 
 (7) In proceedings against a person for an offence under this section save 
under subsection (1)(a), it is a defence to prove that— 
(a) he or she intended to disclose to a police officer such a suspicion, 
belief or matter as is mentioned in subsection (5); but 
(b) there is reasonable excuse for his or her failure to make the 
disclosure in accordance with paragraph (b) of that subsection. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (8) In the case of a person who was in employment at the relevant time, 
subsections (5) and (7) shall have effect in relation to disclosures, and intended 
disclosures, to the appropriate person in accordance with the procedure 
established by his or her employer for the making of such disclosures as they 
have effect in relation to disclosures, and intended disclosures, to a police 
officer. 
 (9) A police officer may disclose any information received under this 
section in relation to drug trafficking— 
(a) to any law enforcement agency in the Territory; 
(b) to the Steering Committee in connection with any offence that 
may be committed under this Act, the Proceeds of Criminal 
40 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Conduct Act, or any other enactment or for the purpose of 
facilitating an investigation under this Act, the Proceeds of 
Criminal Conduct Act or other enactment; (Substituted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
(c) to any law enforcement agency in another country, in order— 
 (i) to report the possible commission of an offence; 
 (ii) to initiate a criminal investigation respecting the matter 
disclosed; 
(iii) to assist with any investigation or criminal proceedings 
respecting the matter disclosed; or 
(iv) to generally give effect to the purposes of this Act. 
(10) Before any disclosure is made pursuant to subsection (9), the interests 
of third parties shall be considered. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(11) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable— 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years; and 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years or both. 
(12) No member of the Steering Committee or the Agency or a police 
officer or other person concerned in law enforcement commits an offence under 
this section in respect of anything done by him or her in the course of acting in 
connection with the enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any provision of 
this Act or of any other enactment relating to drug trafficking or the proceeds of 
such trafficking. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Concealing or transferring property representing proceeds of drug 
trafficking 
35. (1) A person commits an offence if he or she— 
(a) conceals or disguises any property which is, or in whole or in part 
directly or indirectly represents, the proceeds of drug trafficking; 
or 
(b) converts or transfers that property or removes that property from 
the Territory. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) A person commits an offence if, knowing or having reasonable 
grounds to suspect that any property is, or in whole or in part represents, another 
person’s proceeds of drug trafficking, he or she— 
(a) conceals or disguises that property; or 
(b) converts or transfers that property or removes it from the 
Territory. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) In subsections (1) and (2), the references to concealing or disguising 
any property include references to concealing or disguising its nature, source, 
location, disposition, movement or ownership or any rights with respect to it. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
41 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (4) If a person does any act in relation to property which belongs to 
another person in contravention of subsection (2), he or she does not commit an 
offence under that subsection if he or she discloses that act and— 
(a) the disclosure is made before he or she does the act concerned, 
being an act done with the consent of a police officer in aid of a 
law enforcement function; or 
(b) the disclosure is made after he or she does the act, but on his or 
her initiative and as soon as it is reasonable for him or her to 
make it; and 
(c) he or she had a good reason for his or her failure to make the 
disclosure before he or she did the act concerned. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (5) No member of the Steering Committee or the Agency or a police 
officer or other person concerned in law enforcement commits an offence under 
this section in respect of anything done by him or her in the due discharge of the 
enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any provision of this Act or of any 
other enactment relating to drug trafficking or the proceeds of drug trafficking. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under this section is liable— 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or both; or 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14 years or both. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Failure to disclose knowledge or suspicion of money laundering 
36. (1) A person is guilty of an offence if— 
(a) he or she knows, or suspects or has reasonable grounds for 
knowing or suspecting, that another person is engaged in drug 
money laundering; (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) the information, or other matter, on which that knowledge or 
suspicion is based came to his or her attention in the course of his 
or her trade, profession, business or employment; and 
(c) he or she does not disclose the information or other matter to a 
police officer as soon as is reasonably practicable after it comes to 
his or her attention. 
 (2) Subsection (1) does not make it an offence for a professional legal 
adviser to fail to disclose any information or other matter which has come to him 
or her in privileged circumstances. 
 (3) It is a defence to a charge of committing an offence under this section 
that the person charged had a reasonable excuse for not disclosing the 
information or other matter in question. 
 (4) Where a person discloses to a police officer— 
(a) his or her suspicion or belief that another person is engaged in 
drug money laundering; or 
42 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) any information or other matter on which that suspicion or belief 
is based, 
that disclosure shall not be treated as a breach of any restriction imposed by 
statute or otherwise. 
 (5) Without prejudice to subsection (3) or (4), in the case of a person who 
was in employment at the relevant time, it is a defence to a charge of committing 
an offence under this section that he or she disclosed the information or other 
matter in question to the appropriate person in accordance with the procedure 
established by his or her employer for the making of such disclosures. 
 (6) A disclosure to which subsection (5) applies shall not be treated as a 
breach of any restriction imposed by statute or otherwise. 
 (7) For the purposes of this section, having possession of any property 
shall be taken to be doing an act in relation to it. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (8) For the purposes of this section, any information or other matter 
comes to a professional legal adviser in privileged circumstances if it is 
communicated, or given, to him or her— 
(a) by, or by a representative of, a client of his or hers in connection 
with the giving by the adviser of legal advice to the client; 
(b) by, or by a representative of, a person seeking legal advice from 
the adviser; or 
(c) by any person— 
 (i) in contemplation of, or in connection with legal proceedings; 
and 
 (ii) for the purpose of those proceedings. 
 (9) No information or other matter shall be treated as coming to a 
professional legal adviser in privileged circumstances if it is communicated or 
given with a view to furthering any criminal purpose. 
(10) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or 
imprisonment not exceeding 3 years or both; or 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $25,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or both. 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Tipping-off 
37. (1) A person is guilty of an offence if— 
(a) he or she knows or suspects that a police officer or other person is 
acting, or is proposing to act, in connection with an investigation 
which is being, or is about to be, conducted into drug money 
laundering or any action in relation to or arising from drug money 
laundering; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) he or she discloses to any other person information or any other 
matter which is likely to prejudice that investigation, or proposed 
investigation. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
43 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (2) A person is guilty of an offence if— 
(a) he or she knows or suspects that a disclosure (“the disclosure”) 
has been made to a police officer under section 33, 34 or 35; and 
(b) he or she discloses to any other person information or any other 
matter which is likely to prejudice any investigation which might 
be conducted following disclosure. 
 (3) A person is guilty of an offence if— 
(a) he or she knows or suspects that a disclosure (“the disclosure”) of 
a kind mentioned in section 33(5), 34(8) or 35(4) has been made; 
and 
(b) he or she discloses to any person information or any other matter 
which is likely to prejudice any investigation which might be 
conducted following the disclosure. 
 (4) Nothing in subsections (1) to (3) makes it an offence for a 
professional legal adviser to disclose any information or other matter— 
(a) to, or to a representative of, a client of his or hers in connection 
with the giving by the adviser of legal advice to the client; 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) by, or by a representative of, a person seeking legal advice from 
the adviser; or (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(c) to any person— 
 (i) in contemplation of, or in connection with, legal proceedings; 
and 
 (ii) for the purpose of those proceedings. (Amended by Act 2 of 
2008) 
 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply in relation to any information or other 
matter which is disclosed with a view to furthering any criminal purpose. 
 (6) In proceedings against a person for an offence under subsection (1), 
(2) or (3), it is a defence to prove that he or she did not know or suspect that the 
disclosure was likely to be prejudicial in the way mentioned in that subsection. 
 (7) In this section “drug money laundering” has the same meaning as in 
section 36 or, in the case of an act done otherwise than in the Territory, would 
constitute such an offence if done in the Territory. 
 (8) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable— 
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or both; or 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years or both. 
 (9) No member of the Steering Committee or the Agency or a police 
officer or other person concerned in law enforcement commits an offence under 
this section in respect of anything done by him or her in the course of acting in 
connection with the enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any provision of 
44 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
this Act or of any other enactment relating to drug trafficking or the proceeds of 
such trafficking. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
Enforcement of external confiscation orders 
38. (1) The Cabinet may by Order published in the Gazette— 
(a) direct in relation to a country or territory outside the Territory 
(referred to in this section and section 33 as a “requesting 
country”) that, subject to such modifications as may be specified, 
this Act shall apply to external confiscation orders and to 
proceedings which have been or are to be instituted in the 
requesting country and may result in an external confiscation 
order being made there;  
(b) make— 
 (i) such provision in connection with the taking of action in the 
requesting country with a view to satisfying a confiscation 
order; 
 (ii) such provision as to evidence or proof of any matter for the 
purposes of this section and section 39; and 
(iii) such incidental, consequential and transitional provision, 
as appears to the Cabinet to be expedient; and 
(c) without prejudice to the generality of this subsection, direct that in 
such circumstances as may be specified proceeds which arise out 
of action taken in the requesting country with a view to satisfying 
a confiscation order and which are retained there shall 
nevertheless be treated as reducing the amount payable under the 
order to such extent as may be specified.  
(Amended by Acts 2 of 2008 and 12 of 2017) 
 (2) In this Act— 
“external confiscation order” means an order made by a court in a requesting 
country for the purpose of recovering payments or other rewards received 
in connection with drug trafficking or their value; and (Amended by Act 12 
of 2017) 
“modifications” includes additions, alterations and omissions. 
 (3) An Order by the Cabinet under this section may make different 
provision for different cases or classes of case. 
 (4) The power to make an Order under this section includes the power to 
modify (whether by additions, alterations, omissions or otherwise) this Act in 
such a way as to confer power on a person to exercise a discretion. (Inserted by 
Act 5 of 2000) 
 (5) An Order by the Cabinet under this section shall not be made unless a 
draft of the Order has been laid before and approved by resolution of the House 
of Assembly. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
45 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
Registration of external confiscation orders 
39. (1) On an application made by or on behalf of the Government of a 
requesting country, the court may register an external confiscation order made 
there if— 
(a) it is satisfied that at the time of registration the order is in force 
and not subject to appeal; 
(b) it is satisfied, where the person against whom the order is made 
did not appear in the proceedings, that he or she received notice 
of the proceedings in sufficient time to enable him or her to 
defend them; and 
(c) it is of the opinion that enforcing the order in the Territory would 
not be contrary to the interests of justice. 
(Amended by Act 12 of 2017) 
 (2) In subsection (1) “appeal” includes— 
(a) any proceedings by way of discharging or setting aside a 
judgment; and 
(b) an application for a new trial or a stay of execution. 
 (3) The court shall cancel the registration of an external confiscation 
order if it appears to the court that the order has been satisfied by payment of the 
amount due under it. (Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
Orders to make material available 
40. (1) A police officer may, for the purpose of an investigation into drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering, apply to the court for an order under 
subsection (2) in relation to particular material or material of a particular 
description. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) Subject to section 46(10), if on such an application the court is 
satisfied that the conditions in subsection (4) are fulfilled, it may make an order 
that the person who appears to it to be in possession of the material to which the 
application relates shall— 
(a) produce it to a police officer for him or her to take away; or 
(b) give a police officer access to it, 
within such period as the order may specify. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) The period to be specified in an order under subsection (2) shall be 7 
days unless it appears to the court that a longer or shorter period would be 
appropriate in the particular circumstances of the application. (Amended by Act 2 
of 2008) 
 (4) The conditions referred to in subsection (2) are— 
(a) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a specified 
person is involved in drug trafficking or drug money laundering 
or has carried on or has benefitted from drug trafficking or drug 
money laundering; (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
46 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the material 
to which the application relates— 
 (i) is likely to be of substantial value (whether by itself or 
together with other material) to the investigation for the 
purpose of which the application is made; and 
 (ii) does not consist of or include items subject to legal privilege 
or excluded material; and 
(c) that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is in the 
public interest, having regard— 
 (i) to the benefit likely to accrue to the investigation if the 
material is obtained; and 
 (ii) to the circumstances under which the person in possession of 
the material holds it, 
that the material should be produced or that access to it should be given. 
 (5) Where the court makes an order under subsection (2)(b) in relation to 
material on any premises he or she  may, on the application of a police officer, 
order any person who appears to be entitled to grant entry to the premises to 
allow a police officer to enter the premises to obtain access to the material. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (6) Provision may be made by rules of court as to the discharge and 
variation of orders under this section, and proceedings relating to such orders; 
and until such rules are made the procedure with respect to the discharge and 
variation of orders under this section, and the proceedings relating to such orders 
shall be determined by the Judge or Magistrate, as the case may be. (Amended by 
Act 2 of 2008) 
 (7) Where the material to which an application under subsection (1) 
relates consists of information contained in a computer— 
(a) an order under subsection (2)(a) shall have effect as an order to 
produce the material in a form in which it can be taken away and 
in which it is visible and legible; and 
(b) an order under subsection (2)(b) shall have effect as an order to 
give access to the material in a form in which it is visible and 
legible. (Amended by Act 5 of 2000) 
 (8) An order under subsection (2)— 
(a) shall not confer any right to production of, or access to, items 
subject to legal privilege or excluded material; 
(b) shall have effect notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy or 
other restriction upon the disclosure of information imposed by 
written law or otherwise; and 
(c) may be made in relation to material in the possession of a 
government department. 
 (9) An application under subsection (1) or (5) may be made ex parte to a 
Judge or Magistrate in chambers. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000 and amended by Act 2 
of 2008) 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
47 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
(10) Where material is produced pursuant to an order under this section— 
(a) a police officer or the Agency may make a copy of the material; 
and 
(b) the material may— 
 (i) be retained for as long as it is necessary for the purposes of 
completing an investigation; and 
(ii) where it is required for legal proceedings, be retained until 
those proceedings are concluded. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
Authority for search 
41. (1) A police officer may, for the purposes of an investigation into drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering, apply to a court for a warrant under this 
section in relation to specified premises. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (2) On an application under subsection (1), the Judge or a Magistrate may 
issue a warrant authorising a police officer to enter and search the premises if he 
or she is satisfied— 
(a) that an order under section 40 in relation to material on the 
premises has not been complied with; 
(b) that the conditions in subsection (3) are fulfilled; or 
(c) that the conditions in subsection (4) are fulfilled. 
 (3) The conditions referred to in subsection (2)(b) are— 
(a) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a specified 
person is involved in or may be related to an act of drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering or has carried on or has 
benefitted from drug trafficking or drug money laundering; 
(Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(b) that the conditions in section 40(4)(b) and (c) are fulfilled in 
relation to any material on the premises; and 
(c) that it would not be appropriate to make an order under that 
section in relation to the material because— 
 (i) it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled 
to produce the material; 
 (ii) it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled 
to grant access to the material or entitled to grant entry to the 
premises on which the material is situated; or 
(iii) the investigation for the purposes of which the application is 
made might be seriously prejudiced unless a police officer 
could secure immediate access to the material. 
 (4) The conditions referred to in subsection (2)(c) are— 
(a) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a specified 
person is involved in or may be related to an act of drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering or has carried on or has 
benefitted from drug trafficking or drug money laundering; 
(Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
48 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there is on 
the premises material relating to the specified person or to drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering which is likely to be of 
substantial value (whether by itself or together with other 
material) to the investigation for the purpose of which the 
application is made, but that the material cannot at the time of the 
application be particularised; and (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
(c) that— 
 (i) it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled 
to grant entry to the premises; 
 (ii) entry to the premises will not be granted unless a warrant is 
produced; or 
(iii) the investigation for the purpose of which the application is 
made might be seriously prejudiced unless a police officer 
arriving at the premises could secure immediate entry to 
them. 
 (5) Where a police officer has entered any premises in the execution of a 
warrant issued under this section, he or she may seize and retain any material, 
other than items subject to legal privilege and excluded material, which is likely 
to be of substantial value (whether by itself or together with other material) to 
the investigation for the purpose of which the warrant was issued. 
 (6) Where any material is seized pursuant to subsection (5)— 
(a) a police officer or the Agency may make a copy of the material; 
and 
(b) the material may, 
 (i) be retained for as long as it is necessary for the purposes of 
completing an investigation; and 
 (ii) where it is required for legal proceedings, be retained until 
those proceedings are concluded. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
Meaning of “items subject to legal privilege” 
42. (1) Subject to subsection (2), in sections 40 and 41 “items subject to legal 
privilege” means— 
(a) communications between a professional legal adviser and his or 
her client or any person representing his or her client made in 
connection with the giving of legal advice to the client; 
(b) communications between a professional legal adviser and his or 
her client or any person representing his or her client or between 
such an adviser or his or her client or any such representative and 
any other person made in connection with or in contemplation of 
legal proceedings and for the purposes of such proceedings; and 
(c) items enclosed with or referred to in such communications and 
made— 
 (i) in connection with the giving of legal advice; or 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
49 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (ii) in connection with or in contemplation of legal proceedings 
and for the purposes of such proceedings, 
when they are in the possession of a person who is entitled to possession of 
them. 
 (2) Items held with the intention of furthering a criminal purpose are not 
items subject to legal privilege. 
Meaning of “excluded material” 
43. (1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, in sections 40 and 
41 “excluded material” means— 
(a) personal records which a person has acquired or created in the 
course of any trade, business, profession or other occupation or 
for the purposes of any paid or unpaid office and which he or she 
holds in confidence; 
(b) human tissue or tissue fluid which has been taken for the purposes 
of diagnosis or medical treatment and which a person holds in 
confidence; 
(c) journalistic material which a person holds in confidence and 
which consists— 
 (i) of documents; or 
 (ii) of records other than documents. 
 (2) A person holds material other than journalistic material in confidence 
for the purposes of this section if he or she holds it subject— 
(a) to an express or implied undertaking to hold it in confidence; or 
(b) to a restriction on disclosure or an obligation of secrecy contained 
in any written law, including any written law passed or made after 
this Act. 
 (3) A person holds journalistic material in confidence for the purposes of 
this section if— 
(a) he or she holds it subject to such an undertaking, restriction or 
obligation; and 
(b) it has been continuously held (by one or more persons) subject to 
such an undertaking, restriction or obligation since it was first 
acquired or created for the purposes of journalism. 
Meaning of “personal records” 
44. In section 43, “personal records” means documentary and other records 
concerning an individual (whether living or dead) who can be identified from 
them and relating— 
(a) to his or her physical or mental health; 
(b) to spiritual counselling or assistance given or to be given to him 
or her; or 
50 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) to counselling or assistance given or to be given to him or her, for 
the purposes of his or her personal welfare, by any voluntary 
organisation or by any individual who— 
 (i) by reason of his or her office or occupation has 
responsibilities for his or her personal welfare; or 
 (ii) by reason of an order of a court has responsibilities for his or 
her supervision.  
Meaning of “journalistic material” 
45. (1) Subject to subsection (2), in section 43 “journalistic material” means 
material acquired or created for the purposes of journalism. 
 (2) Material is only journalistic material if it is in the possession of a 
person who acquired or created it for the purposes of journalism. 
 (3) A person who receives material from someone who intends that the 
recipient shall use it for the purposes of journalism is to be taken to have 
acquired it for those purposes. 
Disclosure of information held by government departments 
46. (1) Subject to subsection (4), a police officer may apply to a court for an 
order that any material mentioned in subsection (3) which is in the possession of 
a government department be produced to the police officer and the court may, 
upon such application, make such order and specify the period within which 
such material should be produced to the police officer. (Substituted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
 (2) The power to make an order under subsection (1) is exercisable if— 
(a) the powers conferred on the court by sections 18(1) and 19(1) are 
exercisable by virtue of section 17(1); or 
(b) those powers are exercisable by virtue of section 17(2) and the 
court has made a restraint or charging order which has not been 
discharged; but where the power to make an order under 
subsection (1) is exercisable by virtue only of paragraph (b) of 
this subsection, section 17(3) shall apply for the purposes of this 
section as it applies for the purposes of sections 18 and 19. 
 (3) The material referred to in subsection (1) is any material which— 
(a) has been submitted to an officer of a government department by 
the defendant or by a person who has at any time held property 
which was realisable property; 
(b) has been made by an officer of a government department in 
relation to the defendant or such a person; or 
(c) is correspondence which passed between an officer of a 
government department and the defendant or such a person, 
and an order under that subsection may require the production of all such 
material or of a particular description of such material, being material in the 
possession of the department concerned. 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
51 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 (4) An order under subsection (1) shall not require the production of any 
material unless it appears to the court that the material is likely to contain 
information that would facilitate— 
(a) the exercise of the powers conferred on the court by sections 18 to 
21 or on a receiver appointed under section 18 or 21 or in 
pursuance of a charging order; 
(b) the conduct of investigations into drug trafficking or drug money 
laundering; or 
(c) the conduct of proceedings before the court. (Substituted by Act 2 
of 2008) 
 (5) The court may, by order, authorise the disclosure to such a receiver of 
any material produced under subsection (1) or any part of such material; but the 
court shall not make an order under this subsection unless a reasonable 
opportunity has been given for an officer of the department to make 
representations to the court. 
 (6) Material disclosed in pursuance of an order under subsection (5) may, 
subject to any conditions contained in the order, be further disclosed for the 
purposes of the functions under this Act of the receiver. 
 (7) Material disclosed in pursuance of an order under this section may, 
subject to any conditions contained in the order, be further disclosed by a police 
officer or the Agency for the purposes of functions relating to drug trafficking or 
drug money laundering. (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (8) Material may be produced or disclosed in pursuance of this section 
notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy or other restriction upon the 
disclosure of information imposed by written law or otherwise. 
 (9) An order under subsection (1) and, in the case of material in the 
possession of a government department, an order under section 40(2) may 
require any officer of the department (whether named in the order or not) who 
may for the time being be in possession of the material concerned to comply 
with it, and such an order shall be served as if the proceedings were civil 
proceedings against the department. 
(10) The person on whom such an order is served— 
(a) shall take all reasonable steps to bring it to the attention of the 
officer concerned; and 
(b) if the order is not brought to that officer’s attention within the 
period referred to in subsection (1), shall report the reasons for 
the failure to the court, 
and it shall be the duty also of any other officer of the department in receipt of 
the order to take such steps as are mentioned in paragraph (a). 
Prejudicing an investigation 
47. (1) For the purposes of this section— 
(a) “confiscation investigation” is an investigation into whether a 
person has benefitted from drug trafficking or drug money 
laundering, or the extent or whereabouts of his or her benefit from 
the drug trafficking or drug money laundering; and 
52 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) “drug trafficking or drug money laundering investigation” is an 
investigation into whether a person has committed a drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering offence. 
 (2) Where a person knows or suspects that a police officer or the Agency 
is acting or proposing to act in connection with a confiscation investigation or 
drug trafficking or drug money laundering investigation which is being or is 
about to be conducted, he or she commits an offence if— 
(a) he or she makes a disclosure which is likely to prejudice the 
investigation; or 
(b) he or she falsifies, conceals, mutilates, destroys or otherwise 
disposes of, or causes or permits the falsification, concealment, 
mutilation, destruction or disposal, of documents which are 
relevant to the investigation. 
(Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (3) A person does not commit an offence under subsection (2)(a) if— 
(a) he or she does not know or suspect that the disclosure is likely to 
prejudice the investigation; 
(b) the disclosure is made in the exercise of a function under this Act 
or any other enactment relating to drug trafficking or drug money 
laundering or benefit from drug trafficking or drug money 
laundering or in compliance with a requirement imposed under or 
by virtue of this Act; or 
If he or she is a professional legal adviser and the disclosure is 
made— 
 (i) to, or to a representative of, a client of his or hers in 
connection with the giving by the legal adviser of legal advice 
to the client; or 
 (ii) to any person in contemplation of, or in connection with, 
legal proceedings and for the purpose of those proceedings. 
 (4) A person does not commit an offence under subsection (2)(b) if— 
(a) he or she does not know or suspect that the documents are 
relevant to the investigation; or 
(b) he or she does not intend to conceal any facts disclosed by the 
documents from a police officer or the Agency carrying out the 
investigation. 
 (5) A person who commits an offence under subsection (2) is liable— 
(a) on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years, or both; or 
(b) on conviction on indictment to a fine not exceeding $25,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years, or both. 
(Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
Seizure and detention of cash 
48. (1) The Commissioner for Customs or a police officer may seize and, in 
accordance with this section, detain any cash which is found in the Territory or is 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
53 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
being imported into or exported from the Territory if its amount is not less than 
$10,000 and he or she has reasonable grounds for suspecting that it directly or 
indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of, or is intended by any person for 
use in, drug trafficking or drug money laundering. (Amended by Acts 2 of 2008 
and 6 of 2010) 
 (2) Cash whose amount is caught by the restriction provided in subsection 
(1) that is being imported into or exported from the Territory shall not be seized 
and detained if it is declared to the Commissioner for Customs at the port of 
entry or exit, unless there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the cash— 
(a) is intended by any person for use in drug trafficking or drug 
money laundering; or 
(b) directly or indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering. 
(Inserted by Acts 2 of 2008 and 6 of 2010) 
 (3) Cash seized by virtue of this section shall not be detained for more 
than 72 hours unless its continued detention is authorised by order of a 
Magistrate upon an application made by the Commissioner for Customs or a 
police officer; and no such order shall be made unless the Magistrate is 
satisfied— 
(a) that there are reasonable grounds for the suspicion mentioned in 
subsection (1); 
(b) that continued detention of the cash is justified while its origin or 
derivation is further investigated or consideration is given to the 
institution (whether in the Territory or elsewhere) of criminal 
proceedings against any person for an offence with which the 
cash is connected; and 
(c) that proceedings against any person for an offence with which the 
cash is connected have been started but have not been concluded. 
(Amended by Act 2 of 2008 and 6 of 2010) 
 (4) Any order under subsection (3) shall authorise the continued detention 
of the cash to which it relates for such period, not exceeding 3 months beginning 
with the date of the order, as may be specified in the order; and the Magistrate, if 
satisfied as to the matters mentioned in that subsection, may thereafter from time 
to time by order authorise the further detention of the cash but so that— 
(a) no period of detention specified in such an order shall exceed 3 
months beginning with the date of the order; and 
(b) the total period of detention shall not exceed 2 years from the date 
of the order under subsection (2). 
 (5) At any time while cash is detained by virtue of the foregoing 
provisions of this section— 
(a) the Magistrate may direct its release if satisfied— 
 (i) on an application made by the person from whom it was 
seized or a person by or on whose behalf it was being 
imported or exported, that there are no, or are no longer, any 
such grounds for its detention as are mentioned in subsection 
(3); or 
54 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (ii) on an application made by any other person, that detention of 
the cash is not for that or any other reason justified; and 
(b) the Comptroller of Customs or a police officer may release the 
cash if satisfied that its detention is no longer justified but shall 
first notify the Magistrate under whose order it is being detained 
or another Magistrate in the absence of the one under whose order 
it is being detained. (Amended by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (6) Where on an application under subsection (5) for the release of cash 
that is being detained the Magistrate finds that only a part of the cash, if it relates 
to liquid currency, is intended for use by a person for drug trafficking or drug 
money laundering; or directly or indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of 
drug trafficking or drug money laundering, the Magistrate may order the release 
of that part of the cash as does not relate to the intended drug trafficking or drug 
money laundering or directly or indirectly represent the proceeds of drug 
trafficking or drug money laundering. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (7) Subsection (6) does not apply to cash that is in the form of bearer 
negotiable or other monetary instrument. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
 (8) If at a time when any cash is being detained by virtue of the foregoing 
provisions of this section— 
(a) an application for its forfeiture is made under section 49; or 
(b) proceedings are instituted (whether in the Territory or elsewhere) 
against any person for an offence with which the cash is 
connected, 
the cash shall not be released until any proceedings pursuant to the application 
or, as the case may be, the proceedings for that offence have been concluded. 
Forfeiture 
49. In sections 48, 49, 50 and 51— 
(a) The Magistrate may order the forfeiture of any cash which has 
been seized under section 48 if satisfied, on an application made 
by the Commissioner for Customs or a police officer while the 
cash is detained under that section, that the cash directly or 
indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of, or is intended by 
any person for use in, drug trafficking or drug money laundering. 
(Amended by Acts 2 of 2008 and 6 of 2010) 
(b) The standard of proof in proceedings on an application under 
subsection (1) shall be on a balance of probabilities. (Substituted 
by Act 2 of 2008) 
(c) An order may be made under subsection (1) irrespective of 
whether proceedings are brought against a person for an offence 
with which the cash in question is connected. (Inserted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
(d) Where an application for the forfeiture of any cash is made under 
subsection (1), the cash is to be detained (and may not be released 
under any power conferred by this section or section 48) until any 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
55 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
proceedings in pursuance of the application, including any 
proceedings on appeal, are concluded. (Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
(e) Any party to proceedings under this section who is aggrieved by 
an order of the Magistrate may, within 30 days from the date on 
which the order is made, appeal to the Court of Appeal which 
may make such order as it thinks appropriate. (Inserted by Act 2 of 
2008) 
Forfeiture: general 
50. (1) Subject to subsection (3), where a person is convicted of an offence 
under this Act, the court— 
(a) may, in passing sentence, order the forfeiture of any real property 
or any ship, vessel, boat, aircraft, vehicle or other means of 
conveyance of any description shown to the satisfaction of the 
court to relate to the offence; and 
(b) shall, in passing sentence, order the forfeiture of any article, cash 
or valuable consideration shown to the satisfaction of the court to 
relate to the offence. 
 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where, in a trial for an offence under this 
Act, it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that any property is, or represents 
the proceeds of drug trafficking or drug money laundering or has been, is being, 
or is reasonably likely to be used in connection with the retention, control, 
acquisition, possession, use, concealment, disguising, conversion, transfer or 
moving of proceeds of drug trafficking or drug money laundering, the court may, 
whether or not the defendant is convicted of the offence, order forfeiture to the 
Government of the Territory of any such property. 
 (3) The court shall not order anything to be forfeited under subsection (1) 
or (2) unless an opportunity has been given to the person claiming to be the 
owner or other person interested in it to show cause within 30 days from the date 
of conviction why the order should not be made. 
 (4) Forfeiture under subsection (1) shall extend— 
(a) to any property which there is reason to believe has been obtained 
from the proceeds of anything relating to the offence for which a 
person is convicted or to a conspiracy to commit any such 
offence; or 
(b) to anything into which any such property has been converted. 
(Inserted by Act 2 of 2008) 
Interest 
51. Cash seized under section 48 and detained for more than 48 hours shall, 
unless required as evidence of an offence, be held in an interest-bearing account 
and the interest accruing on any such cash shall be added to that cash on its 
forfeiture or release. 
56 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Procedure 
52. (1) An order under section 48(2) shall provide for notice to be given to 
persons affected by the order. 
 (2) Until provision is made by rules under the Magistrate’s Code of 
Procedure Act, the procedure with respect to applications to a Magistrate, for the 
giving of notice of such applications to persons affected, for the joinder of such 
persons as parties and generally with respect to the procedure under sections 48 
and 49, shall be determined by the Magistrate. 
 (3) Subsection (2) is without prejudice to the generality of any existing 
power to make rules. 
Interpretation of certain expressions in sections 48 to 51 
53. In sections 48, 49 and 51— 
“cash” includes coins and notes in any currency and any other monetary type of 
bearer negotiable or monetary instrument; (Substituted by Act 2 of 2008) 
“Commissioner for Customs” means a public officer appointed pursuant to 
section 4 of the Customs Management and Duties Act to be in charge of 
Customs; (Substituted by Act 6 of 2010) 
“exported”, in relation to any cash, includes its being brought to any place in the 
Territory for the purpose of being exported. 
Regulations 
54. The Cabinet may make Regulations for the effective carrying out of the 
provisions of this Act. (Inserted by Act 5 of 2000) 
____________
