 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
 
 
 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
3 
 Act 9 of 1988   ..   in force 30 September 1988 
 
 
Amended by Acts:   4 of 1992   ..   in force 2 June 1992 
 
 
  5 of 1992   ..   in force 16 July 1992 
 
 
  8 of 1993   ..   in force 7 October 1993 
 
 
  1 of 1995   ..   in force 28 September 1995 
 
 
  9 of 1996   ..   in force 27 November 1996 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
 
 
 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
 
 
 
Revised Edition 
showing the law as at 1 January 2020 
 
This is a revised edition of the law, prepared by the Law Revision Commissioner 
under the authority of the Law Revision Act 2014. 
 
 
This edition contains a consolidation of the following laws— 
 
Page 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
3 
 Act 9 of 1988   ..   in force 30 September 1988 
 
Amended by Acts:   4 of 1992   ..   in force 2 June 1992 
 
 
  5 of 1992   ..   in force 16 July 1992 
 
 
  8 of 1993   ..   in force 7 October 1993 
 
 
 
  1 of 1995   ..   in force 28 September 1995 
 
 
  9 of 1996   ..   in force 27 November 1996 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published in 2021 
On the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands  
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
 
For information contact—  
 
Attorney General’s Chambers 
Government of the Virgin Islands 
P.O. Box 242 
Road Town  
Tortola, VG1110 
   British Virgin Islands 
 
Tel: (284) 468 - 2960 
Email: agc@gov.vg   
 
 
Printed on the authority and on behalf of the Government of The Virgin Islands 
by 
The Regional Law Revision Centre Inc.  
P.O. Box 1626, 5 Mar Building,  
The Valley, AI-2640, Anguilla 
Authorised Printers for this Revised Edition 
 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
3 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
SECTION 
 
1. 
Short title 
 
2. 
Interpretation 
 
3. 
The National Drug Advisory Council 
 
4. 
Controlled drugs and their classifications 
 
5. 
Restriction of importation and exportation of controlled drugs 
 
6. 
Restriction of production and supply of controlled drugs 
 
7. 
Restriction of possession of controlled drugs 
 
8. 
Restriction of cultivation of cannabis  
 
9. 
Authorisation of activities otherwise unlawful under foregoing provisions 
 
10. 
Occupiers etc. of premises to be punishable for permitting certain activities 
to take place there 
 
11. 
Prohibition of certain activities etc. relating to controlled drugs 
 
12. 
Power to make regulations for preventing misuse of controlled drugs 
 
13. 
Power to direct special precautions for safe custody of controlled drugs to 
be taken at certain premises 
 
14. 
Directions prohibiting, prescribing, supplying etc. of controlled drugs by 
practitioners etc. convicted of certain offences 
 
15. 
Directions prohibiting, prescribing, supply etc. of controlled drugs by 
practitioners in other cases 
 
16. 
Drug trafficking 
 
17. 
Power to obtain information from doctors etc. in certain circumstances 
 
18. 
Miscellaneous offences 
 
19. 
Attempts etc. to commit offences 
 
20. 
Assisting in or inducing commission outside the Territory of offence 
punishable under a corresponding law 
 
21. 
Offences by corporations 
 
22. 
Further powers to make regulations 
 
23. 
Powers to search and obtain evidence 
 
24. 
Retention and disposal of seized controlled drug 
 
25. 
Power to arrest 
 
26. 
Powers of naval officer 
 
27. 
Committal to the High Court for sentence 
 
28. 
Prosecution and punishment of offences 
 
29. 
Forfeiture 
 
30. 
Forfeiture of conveyance 
 
31. 
Certificate of analyst admissible in evidence 
 
32. 
Proof of lack of knowledge etc. to be a defence in proceedings for certain 
offences 
 
33. 
Service of documents 
 
34. 
Licences and authorities 
 
35. 
General provisions as to regulations 
4 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
36. 
Research 
 
37. 
Meaning of “corresponding law” 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1: Constitution of the Advisory Council 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2: Controlled Drugs 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3: Prosecution and Punishment of Offences 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
5 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
DRUGS (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
(Acts 9 of 1988, 4 of 1992, 5 of 1992,  
8 of 1993, 1 of 1995 and 9 of 1996 ) 
 
AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION WITH RESPECT TO DANGEROUS OR OTHERWISE 
HARMFUL DRUGS AND RELATED MATTERS, AND FOR PURPOSES CONNECTED 
THEREWITH. 
Commencement 
[30 September 1988] 
Short title 
1. This Act may be cited as the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act. 
Interpretation 
2. In this Act, except where the context otherwise requires— 
“the Advisory Council” means the National Drug Advisory Council established 
under this Act; (Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
“analyst” means a person appointed as such under section 31(1); 
“cannabis” (except in the expression “cannabis resin”) means any plant of genus 
Cannabis or any part thereof by whatever name designated and includes in 
whatever form, its preparations, derivatives and similar synthetic 
preparations; 
“cannabis resin” means the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained 
from any plant or any part of a plant of the genus Cannabis; (Amended by Act 
1 of 1995) 
“chemist and druggist” means a person registered as a chemist and druggist under 
the Medical Act; 
“controlled drug” has the meaning assigned by section 4; 
“conveyance” means any ship, vessel, boat, aircraft or other means of transportation 
however described; (Inserted by Act 1 of 1995) 
“corresponding law” has the meaning assigned by section 37; 
“dentist” means a person registered as a dentist under the Medical Act; 
“doctor” means a person registered as a medical practitioner under the Medical Act; 
“druggist” means a person registered as a druggist under the Medical Act; 
“drug trafficking” means doing or being concerned in any of the following, whether 
in the Territory or elsewhere— 
(a) producing a controlled drug in  contravention of section 6(1) or a 
corresponding law;  
(b) supplying a controlled drug in contravention of section 6(2) or a 
corresponding law; 
6 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) transporting or storing a controlled drug where possession of the 
drug is in contravention of section 7(1) or a corresponding law;  
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(d) importing or exporting a controlled drug where the importation or 
exportation is prohibited by section 5(1) or a corresponding law; 
(Amended by Act 1 of 1995) 
(e) entering into or being otherwise concerned in an arrangement 
whereby— 
 (i) the retention or control by or on behalf of another of the 
proceeds of drug trafficking by him or her is facilitated; or 
(Amended by Act 5 of 1992) 
 (ii) the proceeds of drug trafficking by another are used to secure 
that funds are placed at his or her disposal or are used for his or 
her benefit to acquire property by way of investment; (Amended 
by Act 1 of 1995) 
“drug trafficking offence” means— 
(a) an offence under section 5, 6(1), 6(2), 7(1) where section7(3) applies 
or 7(2), that is to say, the import, export, production, supply and 
possession for supply of controlled drugs; (Substituted by Act 1 of 
1995) 
(b) an offence under section 20 (assisting in or inducing commission 
outside the Territory of an offence punishable under a corresponding 
law); (Amended by Act 1 of 1995) 
(c) a conspiracy to commit any of the offences mentioned in paragraphs 
(a) and (b); (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(d) an offence of attempting to commit any of those offences; 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(e) an offence of inciting another to commit any of those offences; 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(f) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of any of 
those offences; (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
“practitioner” means a doctor, a dentist or a veterinary practitioner, except when 
used in the expression “veterinary practitioner”; (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
“prepared opium” means opium prepared for smoking and includes dross and any 
other residues remaining after opium has been smoked; 
“produce” where the reference is to producing a controlled drug, means producing 
it by manufacture, cultivation or any other method and “production” has a 
corresponding meaning; 
“supplying” includes distributing; 
“Territory” means the Virgin Islands; 
“veterinary practitioner” means any person in the Territory holding a qualification 
entitling him or her to practise as a veterinary surgeon in any part of the 
Commonwealth or the United States of America or any person who within 
the Territory is engaged in the practice and profession of veterinary surgery. 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
7 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (2) References in this Act to misusing a drug are references to misusing it by 
taking it; and the reference in the foregoing provision to the taking of a drug is a 
reference to the taking of it by a human being by way of any form of self 
administration, whether or not involving assistance by another. 
 (3) For the purposes of this Act the things which a person has in his or her 
possession shall be taken to include anything subject to his or her control which is 
in the custody of another. 
The National Drug Advisory Council 
3. (1) There shall be constituted in accordance with Schedule 1 hereto the 
National Drug Advisory Council (in this Act referred to as “the Advisory Council”) 
and the supplementary provisions contained in that Schedule shall have effect in 
relation to the Advisory Council. (Amended by Act 4 of 1992) 
 (2) It shall be the duty of the Advisory Council to keep under review the 
situation in the Territory with respect to drugs which are being or appear to them 
likely to be misused and of which the misuse is having or appears to them capable 
of having harmful effects sufficient to constitute a social problem, and to give to the 
Minister, where either the Advisory Council considers it expedient to do so or they 
are consulted by the Minister, advice on measures (whether or not involving 
alteration of the law) which in the opinion of the Advisory Council ought to be 
taken for preventing the misuse of such drugs dealing with social problems 
connected with their misuse, and in particular on measures which in the opinion of 
the Advisory Council, ought to be taken— 
(a) for restricting the availability of such drugs or supervising the 
arrangements for their supply; 
(b) for enabling persons affected by the misuse of such drugs to obtain 
proper advice and for securing the provision of proper facilities and 
services for the treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare of such 
persons; 
(c) for promoting cooperation between the various professional and 
community services which in the opinion of the Advisory Council 
have a part to play in dealing with social problems connected with 
the misuse of such drugs; 
(d) for educating the public (and in particular the young) in the dangers 
of misusing such drugs, and for giving publicity to these dangers; 
and  
(e) for promoting research into, or otherwise obtaining information 
about, any matter which in the opinion of the Advisory Council, is 
of relevance for the purpose of preventing the misuse of such drugs 
or dealing with any social problem connected with their misuse.” 
 (3) It shall also be the duty of the Advisory Council to consider any matter 
relating to drug dependence or the misuse of drugs which may be referred to them 
by the Minister and to advise the Minister thereon. 
8 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Controlled drugs and their classifications 
4. (1) In this Act— 
(a) the expression “controlled drugs” means any substance or product 
for the time being specified in Part I, II, or III of Schedule 2; and 
(b) the expressions “Class A drug”, “Class B drug”, and “Class C drug” 
mean any of the substances and products for the time being specified 
respectively in Part I, Part II, and Part III of that Schedule, 
and the provisions of Part IV of that Schedule shall have effect with respect to the 
meanings of expressions used in that Schedule. 
 (2) The Minister may, after consultation with, or on the recommendation of 
the Advisory Council, by order published in the Gazette, make such amendments to 
Schedule 2 as may be requisite for the purpose of adding any substance or product 
to, or removing any substance or product from, any of Parts I to III of that Schedule. 
 (3) An order under this section may amend Part IV of Schedule 2, and may 
do so whether or not it amends any other Part of that Schedule. 
Restriction of importation and exportation of controlled drugs 
5. (1) Subject to subsection (2)— 
(a) the importation of a controlled drug; and 
(b) the exportation of a controlled drug, 
are hereby prohibited. 
 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply— 
(a) to the importation or exportation of a controlled drug which is for 
the time being excepted from paragraph (a) or as the case may be, 
subsection (1)(b) by regulations under section 9; or (Amended by Act 
1 of 1995) 
(b) to the importation or exportation of a controlled drug under and in 
accordance with the terms of a licence issued by the Minister and in 
compliance with any conditions attached thereto. 
 (3) Any person who imports or exports controlled drugs contrary to 
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction therefor to the 
penalties laid down in section 16. (Amended by Act 4 of 1992) 
Restriction of production and supply of controlled drugs 
6. (1) Subject to any regulations made under section 9, it shall not be lawful for 
a person to produce a controlled drug and subject to section 32 and to any 
regulations made under section 9, it is an offence for a person to— 
(a) produce a controlled drug; or 
(b) be concerned in the production of a controlled drug by another. 
 (2) Subject to any regulations made under section 9, it shall not be lawful for 
a person to supply or offer to supply a controlled drug to another, and subject to 
section 32 and to any regulations made under section 9, it is an offence for a person 
to— 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
9 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) supply or offer to supply a controlled drug to another; 
(b) be concerned in the supply of a controlled drug to another; 
(c) be concerned in the making to another of an offer to supply a 
controlled drug. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
Restriction of possession of controlled drugs 
7. (1) Subject to any regulations made under section 9, it shall not be lawful for 
a person to have a controlled drug in his or her possession, and subject to— 
(a) subsection (4); 
(b) any regulations made under section 9; and 
(c) section 32, 
it is an offence for a person to have a controlled drug in his or her possession. 
 (2) Subject to section 32, a person commits an offence if, with intent to 
supply a controlled drug to another, he or she has that drug in his or her possession 
whether lawfully or not. 
 (3) Subject to subsection (1), a person found in possession of the following 
drugs in quantities of more than— 
(a) 2 grammes of diacetylmorphine (heroin); 
(b) 5 grammes of cocaine; 
(c) 55 grammes of opium; 
(d) 3 grammes of morphine; or 
(e) 50 grammes of cannabis or cannabis resin, 
shall be deemed to be in possession of such controlled drug for the purpose of 
supplying it to another in contravention of section 6(2)(b) or for drug trafficking in 
contravention of section 6(2)(c)  unless the contrary is proved, the burden of proof 
being on the accused. 
 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) in which it is 
proved that the accused had a controlled drug in his or her possession, it shall be a 
defence for him or her to prove that knowing or suspecting it to be a controlled 
drug, he or she took possession of it for the purpose of— 
(a) preventing another from committing or continuing to commit an 
offence in connection with that drug; or 
(b) delivering it into the custody of a person lawfully entitled to take 
custody of it, 
and that as soon as possible after taking possession of it he or she took all such steps 
as were reasonably open to him or her to destroy the drug or, as the case may be, 
deliver it into the custody of a person lawfully entitled to the custody of it. 
 (5) Subsection (4) shall apply in the case of proceedings for an offence under 
section 19 consisting of an attempt to commit an offence under subsection (1) as it 
applies in the case of proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), subject to the 
following modifications, that is to say— 
10 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(a) for the references to the accused having in his or her possession, and 
to his or her taking possession of, a controlled drug there shall be 
substituted respectively references to his or her attempting to get, 
and to his or her attempting to take, possession of such a drug; and 
(b) the words from “and that as soon as possible” onwards shall be 
omitted. 
 (6) Nothing in subsection (4) or (5) shall prejudice any defence which, apart 
from those subsections, may be raised by a person charged with an offence under 
this section. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (7) Nothing in subsection (5) or (6) shall prejudice any defence which is 
open to a person charged with an offence under this section to raise apart from those 
subsections. 
Restriction of cultivation of cannabis 
8. (1) Subject to any regulations under section 9 for the time being in force, it 
shall not be lawful for a person to cultivate any plant of the genus of cannabis. 
 (2) Subject to section 32, it is an offence to cultivate any such plant in 
contravention of subsection (1). 
 (3) Subject to any regulations under section 9 for the time being in force, 
where any plant of the genus cannabis is found growing on any property, the owner, 
lessee, tenant or other person having actual control of the property shall be deemed 
guilty of an offence under subsection (2) unless he or she proves, the onus of which 
proof rests on him or her, that he or she neither knew, suspected nor had reason to 
know or suspect that the plant was growing on the property. 
Authorisation of activities otherwise unlawful under foregoing provisions 
9. (1) The Minister may by regulations— 
(a) exclude from section 5(1)(a) or (b), 6(1)(a) or (b) or 7(1) such 
controlled drugs as may be specified in the regulations; and 
(b) make such other provision as he or she thinks fit for the purpose of 
making it lawful for persons to do things which under the following 
provisions of this Act, that is to say sections 6(1), 7(1) and 8(1), it 
would otherwise be unlawful for them to do. 
 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)(b), regulations 
under that subsection authorising the doing of any such thing as is mentioned in that 
paragraph may in particular provide for the doing of that thing to be lawful— 
(a) if it is done under and in accordance with the terms of a licence or 
other authority issued by the Minister and in compliance with any 
conditions attached thereto; or 
(b) if it is done in compliance with such conditions as may be 
prescribed. 
 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Minister shall so exercise his or her power 
to make regulations under subsection (1) to ensure— 
(a) that it is not unlawful under section 6(1)— 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
11 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (i) for a doctor, dentist, or veterinary practitioner acting in his or 
her capacity as such, to prescribe, administer, manufacture, 
compound, or supply a controlled drug; or 
 (ii) for a druggist or a person lawfully conducting a retail pharmacy 
business, acting in either case in his or her capacity as such, to 
manufacture, compound, or supply a controlled drug; and 
(b) that it is not unlawful under section 7(1) for a doctor, dentist, 
veterinary practitioner, druggist, or person lawfully conducting a 
retail pharmacy business to have a controlled drug in his or her 
possession for the purpose of acting in his or her capacity as such. 
 (4) If, in the case of a controlled drug, the Minister is of the opinion that it is 
in the public interest— 
(a) for the production, supply and possession of that drug to be either 
wholly unlawful or to be permitted solely for purposes of research or 
such other special circumstances as the Minister may determine; or 
(b) to prohibit a practitioner, druggist or person lawfully conducting a 
retail pharmacy business from doing, in relation to that drug, any of 
the things mentioned in subsection (3) except under a licence or 
other authority issued by the Minister, 
he or she may, subject to subsection (6), by order designate that drug as a drug to 
which this subsection applies; and while such an order is in force, subsection (3) 
shall not apply as regards that drug. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (5) An order made under subsection (4) shall be by statutory instrument 
which shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of 
Assembly. 
 (6) The Minister shall not make any order under subsection (4) except after 
consultation with or on the recommendation of the Advisory Council. 
 (7) References in this section to a person “doing” things include references 
to his or her having things in his or her possession. (Amended by Act of 1 of 1995) 
Occupiers etc. of premises to be punishable for permitting certain 
activities to take place there 
10. A person commits an offence if, being the occupier or concerned in the 
management of any premises, he or she knowingly permits or suffers any of the 
following activities to take place on those premises, that is to say— 
(a) producing or attempting to produce a controlled drug in 
contravention of section 6(1); 
(b) supplying or attempting to supply a controlled drug to another in 
contravention of section 6(2), or offering to supply a controlled drug 
to another in contravention of section 6(2); 
(c) preparing cannabis, cannabis resin or opium or any other controlled 
drug for smoking; 
(d) smoking of cannabis, cannabis resin or prepared opium, or any other 
controlled drug. (Amended by Act 1 of 1995) 
12 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Prohibition of certain activities etc. relating to controlled drugs 
11. Subject to section 7(4) and section 32, it is an offence for a person— 
(a) to smoke or otherwise use any controlled drug; 
(b) to frequent a place used for the purpose of opium smoking or 
otherwise using any controlled drug; 
(c) to have in his or her possession— 
 (i) any pipes or other utensils made or adapted for use in 
connection with the smoking of any controlled drug being pipes 
or utensils which have been used by him or her or with his or 
her knowledge and permission in that connection, or which he 
or she intends to use or permit others to use in that connection; 
or 
 (ii) any utensils which have been used by him or her or with his or 
her knowledge and permission in connection with the 
preparation of any controlled drug for smoking. 
(Amended by Act 1 of 1995) 
Power to make regulations for preventing misuse of controlled drugs 
12. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may by regulations 
make such provisions as appear to him or her necessary or expedient for preventing 
the misuse of controlled drugs. 
 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), regulations under 
this section may in particular make provision— 
(a) for requiring precautions to be taken for the safe custody of 
controlled drugs; 
(b) for imposing requirements as to the documentation of transactions 
involving controlled drugs, and for requiring copies of documents 
relating to such transactions to be furnished to the prescribed 
authority; 
(c) for requiring the keeping of records and the furnishing of 
information with respect to controlled drugs in such circumstances 
and in such manner as may be prescribed; 
(d) for the inspection of any precautions taken or records kept in 
pursuance of regulations under this section; 
(e) as to the packaging and labelling of controlled drugs; 
(f) for regulating the transport of controlled drugs and the methods used 
for destroying or otherwise disposing of such drugs when no longer 
required; 
(g) for regulating the issue of prescriptions containing controlled drugs 
and the supply of controlled drugs on prescriptions, and for 
requiring persons issuing or dispensing prescriptions containing 
such drugs to furnish to the prescribed authority such information 
relating to those prescriptions as may be prescribed; 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
13 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(h) for requiring any doctor who attends to a person, whom he  or she 
considers or has reasonable grounds to suspect, is addicted (within 
the meaning of the regulations) to controlled drugs of any 
description to furnish to the prescribed authority such particulars 
with respect to that person as may be prescribed; 
(i) for prohibiting any doctor from administering, supplying and 
authorising the administration and supply to persons so addicted, 
and from prescribing for such persons, such controlled drugs as may 
be prescribed, except under and in accordance with the terms of a 
licence issued by the Minister in pursuance of the Regulations. 
Power to direct special precautions for safe custody of controlled drugs 
to be taken at certain premises 
13. (1) Without prejudice to any requirement imposed by regulations made 
pursuant to section 12(2)(a), the Minister may, by notice in writing served on the 
occupier of any premises on which controlled drugs are or are proposed to be kept, 
give directions as to the taking of precautions or further precautions for the safe 
custody of any controlled drugs of a description specified in the notice. (Substituted 
by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (2) It is an offence to contravene any directions given under subsection (1). 
Directions prohibiting, prescribing,  supplying etc. of controlled drugs by 
practitioners etc. convicted of certain offences 
14. (1) Where a person who is a practitioner or chemist and druggist has, after 
the coming into operation of this subsection, been convicted of an offence under this 
Act, or an offence under section 11 or 12 of the Criminal Justice (International Co-
operation) Act, the Minister may give a direction in writing under subsection (2) in 
respect of that person. (Amended by Act 8 of 1993) 
 (2) A direction under subsection (1) in respect of a person shall— 
(a) if that person is a practitioner, be a direction prohibiting him or her 
from having in his or her possession, prescribing, administering, 
manufacturing, compounding, and supplying and from authorising 
the administration and supply of such controlled drugs as may be 
specified in the direction; 
(b) if that person is a chemist and druggist, be a direction prohibiting 
him or her from having in his or her possession, manufacturing, 
compounding, and supplying and from supervising and controlling 
the manufacture, compounding and supply of such controlled drugs 
as may be specified in the direction. 
 (3) The Minister may, at any time, give a direction in writing— 
(a) cancelling or suspending any direction given by him or her under 
subsection (2); or 
(b) cancelling any direction given by him or her under paragraph (a) of 
this subsection which suspends a direction given under subsection 
(2).  
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
14 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (4) The Minister shall cause a copy of any direction given by him or her 
under this section to be served on the person to whom it applies, and shall cause 
notice of any such direction to be published in the Gazette. 
 (5) A direction under this section shall take effect when a copy of it is served 
on the person to whom it applies. 
 (6) It is an offence to contravene a direction given under subsection (2). 
Directions prohibiting, prescribing, supply etc. of controlled drugs by 
practitioners in other cases 
15. (1) Where a practitioner contravenes any regulations made pursuant to 
paragraph (h) or (i) of section 12(2) or the terms of a licence issued under 
regulations made pursuant to paragraph (i) as aforesaid, the Minister may, subject to 
subsection (3), give a direction in respect of that practitioner, prohibiting him or her 
from— 
(a) prescribing, administering and supplying; and 
(b) authorising the administration and supply of,  
such controlled drugs as may be specified in the direction. 
 (2) If the Minister is of the opinion that a practitioner is or has, after the 
coming into operation of this subsection, been prescribing, administering or 
supplying or authorising the administration or supply of any controlled drugs in an 
irresponsible manner, the Minister may, subject to subsection (3), give to that 
practitioner, a direction in accordance with subsection (1). 
 (3) Where the Minister proposes to give a direction under subsection (1) or 
(2), the Minister shall refer the case to the Advisory Council which shall— 
(a) afford to the practitioner an opportunity to appear before and be 
heard by the Advisory Council; 
(b) consider the circumstances of the case so far as can be ascertained 
by it; and 
(c) report to the Minister whether the information before the Advisory 
Council appears to it to provide reasonable grounds for believing 
that there has been such conduct by the practitioner as mentioned in 
subsection (1) or (2), 
and the Minister shall not give any such direction as aforesaid unless the Advisory 
Council reports that the information before it appears to it to afford such reasonable 
grounds as mentioned in paragraph (c). 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (4) A contravention such as is mentioned in subsection (1) does not as such 
constitute an offence, but it is an offence to contravene a direction given under 
subsection (1) or (2). 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
15 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Drug Trafficking 
16. (1) A person who commits a drug trafficking offence or the offence of being 
in possession of a controlled drug for the purpose of drug trafficking is liable— 
(a) on summary conviction— 
 (i) to a fine of $100,000 or, where there is evidence of the street 
value of the controlled drug, 3 times the street value thereof, 
whichever is the greater; or 
 (ii) to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years but not less 
than 3 years,  
or both such fine and imprisonment; 
(b) upon conviction on indictment— 
 (i) to a fine of $200,000 or, where there is evidence of the street 
value of the controlled drug, 3 times the street value thereof, 
whichever is the greater; or 
 (ii) to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years but not less 
than 10 years, 
or to both such fine and imprisonment. 
 (2) A person who commits a drug trafficking offence in a substance other 
than a controlled drug, which he or she represents or holds out to be a controlled 
drug is liable— 
(a) upon summary conviction to a fine of $5,000 or to imprisonment for 
a term of 2 years or to both such fine and imprisonment; 
(b) upon conviction on indictment to a fine of $25,000 or to 
imprisonment for a term of 5 years or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (3) Subject to any regulations under section 9 for the time being in force, a 
person found in possession of a controlled drug in any school premises is deemed to 
have the controlled drug for the purpose of drug trafficking, unless the contrary is 
proved, the burden of proof being on the accused. 
 (4) In subsection (3) “school premises” includes buildings, playing fields or 
other premises established or maintained by a school for the benefit of its pupils 
whether or not such buildings, playing fields or other premises are within the 
curtilage of the school. 
Power to obtain information from doctor etc., in certain circumstances 
17. (1) If it appears to the Minister that there exists in any area in the Territory, a 
social problem caused by the extensive misuse of dangerous or otherwise harmful 
drugs in that area, the Minister may act in accordance with subsection (2). 
 (2) The Minister may, by notice in writing, served on a doctor or druggist 
practicing in or in the vicinity of the area concerned, or on a person lawfully 
conducting a retail chemist and druggist business at premises situated in or in the 
vicinity of that area, require him or her to furnish to the Minister, with respect to 
16 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
any drugs as may be specified in the notice and as regards any period so specified, 
the particulars set out in subsection (3). 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (3) The particulars mentioned in subsection (2) are such as may be specified 
in the notice relating to the quantities in which and the number and frequency of the 
occasions on which those drugs were— 
(a) in the case of a doctor, prescribed, administered or supplied by him 
or her; 
(b) in the case of a druggist, supplied by him or her; or 
(c) in the case of a person conducting a retail chemist and druggist 
business, supplied in the course of that business at any premises 
situated in or in the vicinity of the area as aforesaid, which may be 
specified in the notice. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (4) A notice under subsection (2)— 
(a) may require any such particulars to be furnished in such manner and 
within such time as may be specified in the notice; 
(b) if served on a chemist and druggist or person conducting a retail 
chemist and druggist business, may, subject to paragraph (c), require 
him or her  to furnish the names and addresses of doctors on whose 
prescriptions any dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs to which the 
notice relates were supplied; 
(c) shall not require any person to furnish any particulars relating to the 
identity of any person for or to whom any such drug has been 
prescribed, administered or supplied; (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (5) A person commits an offence if without reasonable excuse (proof of 
which shall lie on him or her) the person fails to comply with any requirements to 
which he or she is subject by virtue of subsection (1). (Amended by Act 1 of 1995 
 (6) A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with a 
requirement imposed under this section, he or she gives any information which he 
or she knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly gives any information 
which is so false. (Amended by Act 1 of 1995) 
Miscellaneous offences 
18. (1) A person commits an offence if he or she contravenes regulations made 
under this Act, other than regulations made pursuant to section 12(2)(h) or (i). 
 (2) A person commits an offence if he or she contravenes a condition or 
other term of a licence issued under section 5 or a licence or other authority issued 
under regulations made under this Act, not being a licence issued under regulations 
made pursuant to section 12(2)(i). (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (3) A person commits an offence if, in purported compliance with any 
obligation to give information to which he or she is subject under or by virtue of 
regulations made under this Act, he or she gives any information which he or she 
knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly gives any information which 
is so false. 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
17 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (4) A person commits an offence if, for the purpose of obtaining, whether for 
himself or herself or another, the issue or renewal of licence or other authority under 
this Act or under any regulations made under this Act, he or she— 
(a) makes any statement or gives any information which he or she 
knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly gives any 
information which is so false; or 
(b) produces or otherwise makes use of any book, record or other 
document which to his or her knowledge contains any statement or 
information which he or she knows to be false in a material 
particular. 
 (5) Any person who has a controlled drug lawfully in his or her possession 
and who discovers the loss or theft of such controlled drug commits an offence if he 
or she fails to report within 24 hours of discovery, such loss or theft to the nearest 
police station. 
Attempts etc. to commit offences 
19. It is an offence for a person to attempt to commit an offence under any other 
provision of this Act or to incite or attempt to incite another to commit such an 
offence. 
Assisting in or inducing commission outside the Territory of offence 
punishable under a corresponding law 
20. A person commits an offence if in the Territory he or she assists in, or 
induces the commission in any place outside the Territory of an offence punishable 
under the provisions of a corresponding law in force in that place. 
Offences by corporations 
21. Where any offence under this Act or Part II of the Criminal Justice 
(International Co-operation) Act committed by a body corporate is proved to have 
been committed with the consent or connivance of, or be attributable to any neglect 
on the part of any director, manager, secretary, or other similar officer of the body 
corporate, or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he or she, as well as 
the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded 
against and punished accordingly. (Amended by Acts 8 of 1993 and 1 of 1995) 
Further powers to make regulations 
22. The Minister may by regulations make provision— 
(a) for excluding in such cases as may be prescribed— 
 (i) the application of any provision of this Act which creates an 
offence; or 
 (ii) the application of the provisions of the Custom Management 
and Duties Act, in so far as they apply in relation to a 
prohibition or restriction on importation or exportation having 
effect by virtue of section 5; 
18 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(b) for the application of any provisions of this Act or regulations or 
orders thereunder to servants or agents of the Crown, subject to such 
exceptions, adaptations, and modifications as may be prescribed. 
Powers to search and obtain evidence 
23. (1) A member of the Police Force or other person authorised in that behalf 
by a general or special order of the Minister shall, for the purposes of the execution 
of this Act, have power to enter the premises of a person carrying on business as a 
producer or supplier of a controlled drug and to demand the production of, and to 
inspect any books or documents relating to dealings in such drugs and to inspect 
stocks of such drugs. 
 (2) If a member of the Police Force has reasonable grounds to suspect that 
any person is in possession of a controlled drug in contravention of this Act or of 
any regulations made thereunder, the member of the Police Force may, subject to 
subsections (3), (6) and (7)— 
(a) search that person and detain him or her for the purpose of searching 
him or her; 
(b)  search any conveyance in which the member of the Police Force 
suspects that the drug may be found, and for that purpose require the 
person in the control of that conveyance to stop it; or (Substituted by 
Act 1 of 1995) 
(c) seize and detain for the purposes of proceedings under this Act— 
 (i) anything found in the course of the search which appears to the 
member of the Police Force to be evidence of an offence under 
this Act; 
 (ii) any conveyance or receptable in which a controlled drug is 
found. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (3) In addition to the powers vested in a member of the Police Force under 
subsection (2), where a controlled drug is found in a conveyance or receptacle, an 
officer of customs may seize that conveyance or receptacle. (Substituted by Act 1 of 
1995) 
 (4) The master or any person in control of such conveyance shall be deemed 
to be guilty of an offence under section 7(2) unless he or she proves that the 
controlled drug was in the conveyance without his or her consent, knowledge or 
connivance and that he or she exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission 
of the offence. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (5) Nothing in subsection (2) shall apply to a ship, vessel, boat, or aircraft 
belonging to the Royal Navy, the Royal Air Force or the naval or air forces of any 
other country, if permission has been granted by the competent authority for such 
ship, vessel, or boat to come into the territorial waters of the Territory or for such 
aircraft to enter the Territory. 
 (6) Nothing in subsection (2) shall derogate from any power of search or 
power to seize or detain property which is otherwise exercisable by a member of the 
Police Force. 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
19 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (7) A Magistrate or Justice of the Peace may issue a warrant in accordance 
with subsection (8) if satisfied by information on oath that there is reasonable 
ground for suspecting— 
(a) that controlled drugs are in the possession of a person on premises or 
in a place in contravention of this Act or regulations made 
thereunder; or 
(b) that there is in the possession of a person on premises or in a place, a 
document relating (directly or indirectly) to or connected with a 
transaction or dealing or intended transaction or dealing which 
would— 
 (i) if carried out, be an offence under this Act; or 
 (ii) if carried out or intended to be carried out in a place outside the 
Territory, be an offence against the provisions of a 
corresponding law in force in that place. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (8) The warrant mentioned in subsection (7) may authorise a member of the 
Police Force at any time or times within one month from the date of issue thereof 
to— 
(a) enter, with force if necessary, the premises or place named in the 
warrant; 
(b) search such premises or place and any such persons found therein; 
(c) seize and detain— 
 (i) any controlled drug found on the premises or place or in the 
possession of any such persons if there is reasonable ground for 
suspecting that an offence under this Act has been committed in 
relation to any such controlled drugs; or 
 (ii) any document found on the premises or place if there is 
reasonable ground for suspecting that the document so found is 
such as is mentioned in subsection (7)(b).  
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (9) A person commits an offence if he or she— 
(a) intentionally obstructs a person in the exercise of his or her powers 
under this section; 
(b) being the person in control of a conveyance, fails to stop it when 
required to do so under subsection (2)(b); 
(c) being a person conveyed in a conveyance, intimidates or prevents 
the person in control of or any other person operating the 
conveyance from stopping when required to do so under subsection 
(2)(b); 
(d) without the permission of a person acting in the exercise of his or 
her powers under subsection (2), leaves a conveyance which has 
been stopped by that person pursuant to subsection (2)(b); 
20 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(e) conceals from a person acting in the exercise of his or her powers 
under subsection (1), any such books, documents, stocks or drugs as 
are mentioned in that subsection; or 
(f) without reasonable excuse (proof whereof shall lie on him or her) 
fails to produce any such books, documents or stocks of drugs as 
aforesaid where the production thereof is demanded by a person 
acting in the exercise of his or her powers under subsection (1).  
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(10) No person shall be searched by any person of the opposite sex. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
(11) No article of a person’s clothing may be removed from his or her body 
during a search at any place other than within a police station. (Substituted by Act 1 
of 1995) 
(12) The powers conferred by subsection (1) shall be exercisable also for the 
purposes of the execution of Part II of the Criminal Justice (International Co-
operation) Act and subsection (7) (excluding paragraph (a)) shall apply also to 
offences under section 9 or 10 of that Act, taking references in those provisions to 
controlled drugs as references to scheduled substances within the meaning of that 
Part. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
Retention and disposal of seized controlled drug 
24. (1) Where any substance seized under the provisions of this Act exceeds a 
weight of 5 kilogrammes, the Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, may order 
that such portion as may be specified by him or her of the seized controlled drug be 
retained— 
(a) for forensic examination or for other investigation in connection 
with an offence; 
(b) for use as evidence at a trial for an offence, 
and may, in relation to the remaining portion, make an order under subsection (2).  
 (2) The Magistrate or Judge, as the case may be, after satisfying 
themselves— 
(a) as to the weight of the remaining portion; and 
(b) that the remaining portion is the same substance as that ordered to be 
retained under subsection (1), 
may order that the remaining portion be destroyed in such manner as he or she may 
direct. 
 (3) An order made under subsection (2) shall be admissible in evidence in 
any proceedings without further proof and shall be prima facie evidence of the facts 
stated in the order. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
Power to arrest 
25. (1) A member of the Police Force may arrest without warrant a person who 
has committed, or whom the member of the Police Force, with reasonable cause, 
suspects to have committed an offence under this Act. 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
21 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (2) Where a controlled drug is found on premises searched under section 
23(1), or in a conveyance stopped under section 23(2), the member of the Police 
Force who has made the search or stopped the conveyance may arrest without 
warrant any person in the premises or conveyance whom he or she has reasonable 
cause to believe has committed an offence under this Act. (Substituted by Act 1 of 
1995) 
 (3) This section shall not prejudice any power of arrest conferred by law 
apart from this section. 
Powers of naval officer 
26. (1) A captain of any ship belonging to the Royal Navy or any person acting 
under the command of such captain, shall within the territorial waters of the Virgin 
Islands have and exercise all the powers vested in a police officer under sections 
23(2) and 25(2). 
 (2) Where a captain of any ship belonging to the Royal Navy or any person 
acting under the command of such captain— 
(a) seizes and detains anything under section 23(2)(c)(i) or any 
conveyance receptacle under section 23(2)(c)(ii); or 
(b) arrests any person under section 25(2), 
that captain or any person acting under his or her command shall take such thing, 
conveyance, receptacle or person to a police officer as soon as may be practicable. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
Committal to the High Court for sentence 
27. (1) Where on the summary trial of an offence committed under this Act and 
triable either summarily or on indictment a person who is not less than 18 years of 
age is convicted of the offence, then, if on obtaining information that his or her 
character and antecedents are such that in the opinion of the Magistrate greater 
punishment should be inflicted for the offence than the Magistrate has power to 
inflict, the Magistrate may commit that person in custody to the High Court for 
sentence and shall, as soon as practicable, transmit to the Registrar of the High 
Court the record of the proceedings. 
 (2) On receipt of the record, the Registrar of the High Court shall issue an 
order to the gaoler to bring the convicted person before a Judge of the High Court at 
a time to be fixed by the Judge of the High Court. 
 (3) The Judge of the High Court shall inquire into the circumstances of the 
case and shall have power to deal with the convicted person as if he or she had just 
been convicted of the offence on indictment before the High Court. 
Prosecution and punishment of offences 
28. (1) Except where expressly otherwise provided Schedule 3 shall have effect, 
in accordance with subsection (2), with respect to the way in which offences under 
this Act are punishable on conviction. 
22 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (2) In relation to an offence under a provision of this Act specified in the 
first column of Schedule 3 (the general nature of the offence being described in the 
second column)— 
(a) the third column shows whether the offence is punishable on 
summary conviction or on indictment or in either way; 
(b) the fourth, fifth and sixth columns show respectively the 
punishments which may be imposed on a person convicted of the 
offence in the way specified in relation thereto in the third column 
(that is to say, summarily or on indictment) according to whether the 
controlled drug in relation to which the offence was committed was 
a Class A drug, a Class B drug, or a Class C drug; and 
(c) the seventh column shows the punishments which may be imposed 
on a person convicted of the offence in the way specified in relation 
thereto in the third column (that is to say, summarily or on 
indictment), whether or not the offence was committed in relation to 
a controlled drug, and if it was so committed, irrespective of 
whether the drug was a Class A drug, a Class B drug, or a Class C 
drug, 
and in the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh columns a reference to a period gives the 
maximum term of imprisonment and a reference to a sum of money the maximum 
fine. 
 (3) An offence under section 19 shall be punished on summary conviction, 
on indictment or in either way according to whether, under Schedule 3, the 
substantive offence is punishable on summary conviction, on indictment or in either 
way; and the punishments which may be imposed on a person convicted of an 
offence under that section are the same as those which, under that Schedule, may be 
imposed on a person convicted of the substantive offence. 
 (4) In subsection (3) “the substantive offence” means the offence under this 
Act to which the attempt, or, as the case may be, the incitement or attempted 
incitement mentioned in section 19, was directed. 
 (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Magistrate’s Code of Procedure 
Act, a Magistrate may try an information or complaint for any offence under this 
Act if the information or complaint was laid, or as the case may be, made at any 
time within 2 years from the commission of the offence. (Amended by Act 4 of 1992) 
 (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law where any person is 
charged with an offence under this Act such offence shall be tried summarily or on 
indictment, at the election of the prosecution. (Inserted by Act 4 of 1992) 
Forfeiture 
29. (1) Where a person is convicted of an offence under this Act other than a 
drug trafficking offence, the court may order forfeiture to the Government of the 
Territory of any or all of the following— 
(a) an opium pipe or other article; 
(b) the controlled drug in respect of which the offence was committed 
and all receptacles of any kind found containing the controlled drug; 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
23 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(c) a conveyance proved to have contained the opium pipe or other pipe 
or controlled drug; 
(d) anything shown to the satisfaction of the court to relate to the 
offence. 
 (2) Where a conveyance is ordered to be forfeited under subsection (1), the 
owner of such conveyance may, within 14 days of such order, make to the court 
which made the order, a claim for the conveyance to be restored to him or her. 
 (3) Where a claim is made to the court under subsection (2) the court may, 
subject to subsection (4), order that the conveyance shall be restored to the owner 
thereof on payment by him or her of any expenses incurred in seizing, transporting 
and keeping such conveyance for the purposes of this section. 
 (4) A court shall not make an order under subsection (3) unless it is satisfied 
that the owner, charterer or master of the conveyance, as the case may be— 
(a) did not permit any person convicted of an offence under this Act to 
use the conveyance for the purposes of transporting any controlled 
drug in respect of which the offence was committed; 
(b) had no knowledge that any person convicted of an offence under this 
Act would use the conveyance for the purpose of transporting any 
such controlled drug. 
(Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (5) Without prejudice to subsection (1) where a person is convicted of a drug 
trafficking offence, the court shall in passing sentence order forfeiture to the 
Government of the Territory— 
(a) any article; 
(b) any money; or 
(c) any valuable consideration, 
relating to the offence, but the court shall not order anything to be forfeited under 
this subsection unless an opportunity has been given to the person claiming to be 
the owner or other person interested in it to show cause within 14 days from the date 
of conviction why the order should not be made. 
 (6) Forfeiture shall extend— 
(a) to any property which there is reason to believe has been obtained 
from the proceeds of anything relating to the offence for which a 
person is convicted under this Act or to a conspiracy to commit any 
such offence; or 
(b) to anything into which any such property has been converted. 
 (7) Subject to subsection (5), forfeitures under this section may be applied to 
such purposes as may be determined by the Cabinet. (Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
 (8) Controlled drugs forfeited under this section shall be disposed of in such 
manner as the Court may direct. (Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
Forfeiture of conveyance 
30. (1) Notwithstanding section 29(1), where a person is convicted of a drug 
trafficking offence under this Act or of any offence under the Criminal Justice 
24 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
(International Co-operation) Act, and the court convicting the person is satisfied that 
a conveyance which was in the person’s possession or under his or her control at the 
time of the commission of the offence— 
(a) has been used in connection with or for the purpose of committing 
or facilitating the commission of such offence; or 
(b) was intended by him or her to be used for the purpose mentioned in 
paragraph (a), 
the court shall, in passing sentence, order forfeiture to the Government of the 
Territory of the conveyance. 
 (2) The provisions of section 29(2), (3) and (4) shall, with such modification 
as may be necessary, apply to this section. 
 (3) Section 92 of the Police Act shall not apply to a conveyance which is the 
subject of an order under this section. 
(Inserted by Act 9 of 1996) 
Certificate of analyst admissible in evidence 
31. (1) The Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette, appoint a person 
qualified as an analyst to be an analyst for the purposes of this Act. 
 (2) Subject to subsections (4) and (5) and notwithstanding the provisions of 
any other law, a certificate of an analyst purporting to be signed by the analyst and 
stating— 
(a) that he or she has analysed or examined a substance; and 
(b) the result of such analysis or examination, 
is, in any prosecution under this Act, admissible in evidence of the matters stated 
therein if it is proved by other evidence that the seals or other fastenings of the 
container of the substance analysed to which the certificate relates, were intact at the 
time when that container was delivered to him or her. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (3) No evidence shall be required by the court as to the signature or 
qualifications of the person purporting to have signed the certificate. 
 (4) No certificate shall be received in evidence unless the party intending to 
produce it has given to the other party 7 days’ notice of such intention and has 
furnished with such notice a copy of the certificate. 
 (5) In any prosecution under this Act, either of the parties may require the 
attendance of any analyst to give evidence and in such case, the costs of his or her 
attendance shall, unless the Judge or Magistrate orders otherwise, be payable by the 
party so requiring. 
Proof of lack of knowledge etc. to be a defence in proceedings for certain 
offences 
32. (1) This section applies to offences under sections 6(1), 6(2), 7(1), 7(2), 8(2) 
and 11. (Substituted by Act 1 of 1995) 
 (2) Subject to subsection (3), in any proceedings for an offence to which this 
section applies, it shall be a defence for the person charged to prove that he or she 
neither knew of, nor suspected, nor had reason to suspect the existence of some fact 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
25 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
alleged by the prosecution which it is necessary for the prosecution to prove if  the 
person is to be convicted of the offence charged. 
 (3) Where in any proceedings for an offence to which this section applies it 
is necessary if the accused is to be convicted of the offence charged, for the 
prosecution to prove that some substance or product involved in the alleged offence 
was the controlled drug which the prosecution alleges it to have been, and it is 
proved that the substance or product in question was that controlled drug, the 
accused— 
(a) shall not be acquitted of the offence charged by reason only of 
proving that he or she neither knew, nor suspected nor had reason to 
suspect that the substance or product in question was the particular 
controlled drug alleged; but 
(b) shall be acquitted thereof— 
 (i) if he or she proves that he or she neither believed nor suspected, 
nor had reason to suspect that the substance or product in 
question was a controlled drug; or 
 (ii) if he or she proves that he or she believed the substance or 
product in question to be a controlled drug, or a controlled drug 
of a description, such that if it had in fact been that controlled 
drug or a controlled drug of that description, he or she would 
not at the material time have been committing any offence to 
which this section applies. 
 (4) Nothing in this section shall prejudice any defence which is open to a 
person charged with an offence to which this section applies to raise apart from this 
section. 
Service of documents 
33. (1) Any notice or other document required or authorised by any provision of 
this Act to be served on any person may be served on him or her either by 
delivering it to him or her or by leaving it at his or her proper address or by sending 
it by registered post. 
 (2) Any notice or other document so required or authorised to be served on a 
body corporate shall be duly served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that 
body. 
 (3) For the purposes of this section the proper address of any person shall, in 
the case of the secretary or clerk or a body corporate, be that of the registered or 
principal office of that body, and in any other case shall be the last address of the 
person to be served which is known to the Minister. 
Licences and authorities 
34. A licence or other authority issued by the Minister for the purposes of this 
Act or of regulations made under this Act may be, to any degree, general or specific, 
issued on such terms and subject to such conditions (including in the case of a 
licence the payment of a prescribed fee) as the Minister thinks proper, and may be 
modified or revoked by him or her at any time. 
26 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
General provisions as to regulations 
35. (1) Regulations made by the Minister under any provision of this Act— 
(a) may make different provisions in relation to different controlled 
drugs, different classes of persons, different provisions of this Act or 
other different cases or circumstances; and 
(b) may make the opinion, consent or approval, of a prescribed authority 
or of any person authorised in a prescribed manner material for the 
purposes of any provision of the regulations; and 
(c) may contain such supplementary, incidental and transitional 
provisions as appear expedient to the Minister. 
 (2) The Minister shall not make any regulations under this Act except after 
consultation with the Advisory Council. 
 (3) Any regulations made under this Act by the Minister shall be subject to 
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Assembly.  
Research 
36. The Minister may conduct or assist in conducting research into any matter 
relating to the misuse of dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs. 
Meaning of “corresponding law” 
37. (1) In this Act, the expression “corresponding law” means a law stated in a 
certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the government of a country 
outside the Territory to be a law providing for the control and regulation in that 
country of the production, supply, use, export, and import of drugs and other 
substances in accordance with the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic 
Drugs signed at New York on 30th March, 1961, or a law providing for the control 
and regulation in that country of the production, supply, use, export, and import of 
dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs in pursuance of any treaty, convention or 
other agreement or arrangement to which the government of that country and the 
Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland including 
the Territory are for the time being parties. 
 (2) A statement in any such certificate as aforesaid to the effect that any facts 
constitute an offence against the law mentioned in the certificate shall be conclusive 
evidence of the matters stated. 
____________ 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
27 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 1 
(Section 3) 
CONSTITUTION OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL 
1. (1) The Advisory Council shall consist of such number of members, but not 
exceeding 12 appointed by the Minister, representing relevant interest groups in the 
Territory including the following— 
(a) medical and health services; 
(b) education, sports and youth organisations; 
(c) police and public services; 
(d) legal profession; and 
(e) voluntary associations.  
(Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
 (2) The Minister shall appoint one of the members to be the Chairman of the 
Advisory Council. (Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
2. The Advisory Council may appoint committees, which may consist in part of 
persons who are not members of the Advisory Council to consider and report to the 
Advisory Council on any matter referred to them by the Advisory Council. 
3. At meetings of the Advisory Council the quorum shall be 5, and subject to that, the 
Advisory Council may determine their own procedure. (Amended by Act 4 of 1992) 
4. The Minister shall have power to co-opt to the Council or any committee thereof any 
person whom he or she considers able to assist in their deliberation on any matter and any 
person so co-opted shall to all intents and purposes be a member for so long as he or she is 
co-opted save that such person shall have no vote and shall not be counted for the purpose 
of constituting a quorum. (Inserted by Act 4 of 1992) 
____________ 
 
28 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 2 
(Section 4) 
DRUG (PREVENTION OF MISUSE) ACT 
CONTROLLED DRUGS 
PART I 
CLASS A DRUGS 
1. The following substances and products, namely— 
(a) 
Acetorphine 
Dihydromorphine 
 
Alfentanil 
Dimenoxadole 
 
Allylprodine 
Dimepheptanol 
 
Alphacetylmethadol 
Dimethylthiambutene 
 
Alphameprodine 
Dioxaphetyl butyrate 
 
Alphamethadol 
Diphenoxylate 
 
Alphaprodine 
Dipipanone 
 
Anileridine 
Drotebanol (3, 
4-dimethoxy- 
17-methylmorphi- 
nan-6, 14-diol) 
 
Benzethidine 
 
 
Benzylmorphine 
(3-benzylmor- 
phine) 
 
 
 
Ecgonine, and any 
derivative of ecgo- 
nine which is con 
vertible to ecgo- 
nine or to cocaine 
 
Betacetylmethadol 
 
 
Betameprodine 
 
 
Betamethadol 
 
 
Betaprodine 
 
 
Bezitramide 
Ethylmethylthiambutene 
 
Bufotenine 
 
 
Cannabinol, except 
where contained 
in cannabis or 
cannabis resin 
Eticyclidine 
 
 
Etonitazene 
 
 
Fentanyl 
 
 
Furethidine 
 
Cannabinol derivatives 
Hydrocodone 
 
 
Hydromorphinol 
 
Carfentanil 
Hydromorphone 
 
Clonitazene 
Hydroxypethidine 
 
Coca leaf 
Isomethadone 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
29 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Cocaine 
Ketobemidone 
 
Desomorphine 
Levomethorphan 
 
Dextromoramide 
Levomoramide 
 
Diamorphine 
Levophenacylmorphan 
 
Diampromide 
 
 
Diethylthiambutene 
Levorphanol 
 
Difenoxin 
(1-3-cyano-3, 
3-diphenylpropyl)- 
4-phenylpiperi- 
dine-4- 
carboxylic acid). 
Lofentanil 
 
 
Lysergamide 
 
 
Lysergide and other 
N-alkyl derivative 
of lysergamide 
 
 
Mescaline 
 
Dihydrocodeinone O-
carboxymethyloxime 
Metazocine 
 
 
Methadone 
 
 
Methadyl acetate 
 
Methyldesorphine 
Properidine (1-methyl- 
4-phenyl-piperi- 
dine- 
carboxylic acid 
isopropyl ester) 
 
Methyldihydro-mor- 
phine (6- 
methyldihydro- 
morphine) 
 
 
Metopon 
Psilocin 
 
Morpheridine 
Racemethorphan 
 
Morphine 
Racemoramide 
 
Morphine methobro- 
mide, morphine 
N-oxide and other 
pentavalent nitro- 
gen morphine 
derivatives 
Racemorphan 
 
 
Rolicyclidine 
 
 
Sufentanil 
 
 
Tenocyclidine 
 
 
Thebacon 
 
 
Thebaine 
 
Myrophine 
Tilidate 
 
Nicomorphine (3, 
6-dinicotinoyl- 
morphine) 
Trimeperidine 
 
 
4-Bromo-2, 
5-dimethoxy- 
methylphenathy- 
lamine 
30 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Noracymethadol 
 
 
Norlevorphanol 
 
 
Normethadone 
4-Cyano-2-dimethy- 
lamino-4, 4- 
diphenylbutane 
 
Normorphine 
 
 
Norpipanone 
 
 
Opium, whether raw, 
prepared or medic- 
inal 
4-Cyano-1-methyl-4- 
phenyl-piperidine 
 
 
N, N-Diethyltrypta- 
mine 
 
Oxycodone 
 
 
Oxymorphone 
N, N-Dimethyltrypta- 
mine 
 
Pethidine 
 
 
Phenadoxone 
2,5-Dimethoxy-, 
4-dimethyl-phenethylamine 
 
Phenampromide 
 
 
Phenazocine 
 
 
Phencyclidine 
1-Methyl-4-phenylip- 
iperidine-4-car-boxylic acid 
 
Phenomorphan 
 
 
Phenoperidine 
 
 
Piminodine 
2-Methyl-3-morpholi- 
no-1; 1-diphenyl- 
propanecarboxylic 
acid 
 
Proheptazine 
 
 
 
4-phenylpiperidine-4 
carboxylic acid 
ethyl ester 
 
(b) any compound (not being a compound for the time being specified in 
subparagraph (a) above) structurally derived from tryptamine or from a 
ringhydroxy tryptamine by substitution at the nitrogen atom of the 
sidechain with one or more alkyl substituents but no other substituent; 
(c) any compound (not being methoxyphenamine or a compound for the time 
being specified in subparagraph (a) above) structurally derived from 
phenethylamine, an N-alkylphenethylamine, -ethylphenethylamine, an N-
alkyl-methylphenethylamine, -ethylphenethylamine, or an N-alkyl-ethyl-
phenethylamine by substitution in the ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, 
alkylenedioxy or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in 
the ring by one or more other univalent substituents. 
(d) any compound (not being a compound for the time being specified in 
subparagraph (a) above) structurally derived from fentanyl by modification 
in any of the following ways, that is to say— 
 (i) by replacement of the phenyl portion of the phenethyl group by any 
heteromonocycle whether or not further substituted in the heterocycle; 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
31 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 (ii) by substitution in the phenthyl group with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, 
hydroxy, halogeno, haloalkyl, amino or nitro groups; 
 (iii) by substitution in the piperidine ring with alkyl or alkenyl groups; 
 (iv) by substitution in the aniline ring with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, 
halogeno or haloalkyl groups; 
 (v) by substitution at the 4-position of the piperidine ring with any 
alkoxycarbonyl or alkoxyalkyl or acyloxy group; 
 (vi) by replacement of the N-propionyl group by another acyl group; 
(e) any compound (not being a compound for the time being specified in sub-
paragraph (a) above) structurally derived from pethidine by modification 
in any of the following ways, that is to say— 
 (i) by replacement of the 1-methyl group by an acyl, alkyl whether or not 
unsaturated, benzyl or phenethyl group, whether or not further 
substituted; 
 (ii) by substitution in the piperidine ring with alkyl or alkenyl groups or 
with a propano bridge, whether or not further substituted; 
 (iii) by substitution in the 4-phenyl ring with alkyl, alkoxy, aryloxy, 
halogeno or haloalkyl groups; 
 (iv) by replacement of the 4-ethoxycarbonyl by any other alkoxycarbonyl 
or any alkoxyalkyl or acyloxy group; 
 (v) by formation of an N-oxide or of a quaternary base. 
2. Any stereoisomeric form of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 
above not being dextromethorphan or dextrorphan. 
3. An ester or ether of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 or 2 
above not being a substance for the time being specified in Part II of this Schedule. 
4. Any salt of a substance for the time being specified in any of paragraphs 1 to 3 
above. 
5. Any preparation or other product containing a substance or product for the time 
being specified in any of paragraphs 1 to 4 above. 
6. Any preparation designed for administration by injection which includes a substance 
or product for the time being specified in any of paragraphs 1 to 3 of Part II of this 
Schedule. 
32 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART II 
CLASS B DRUGS 
1. The following substances and products, namely— 
(a) 
Acetyldihydrocodeine 
Methaqualone 
 
 
Methylamphetamine 
 
Amphetamine 
Methylphenidate 
 
Cannabis and 
cannabis resin 
Methylphenobarbitone 
 
 
Nicocodine 
 
Codeine 
Nicodicodine (6-nicoti-
noyldihydrocodeine) 
 
Dihydrocodeine 
 
 
Ethylmorphine (3-eth- 
ylmorphine) 
 
 
 
Norcodeine 
 
Gluthethimide 
Pentazocine 
 
Lefetamine 
Phenmetrazine 
 
Mecloqualone 
Pholcodine 
 
 
 
(b) 
any 5, 5 disubstituted barbituric acid. 
2. Any stereoisomeric form of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 
of this Part of the Schedule. 
3. Any salt of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 or 2 of this Part 
of this Schedule. 
4. Any preparation or other product containing a substance or product for the time 
being specified in any of paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Part of this Schedule, not being a 
preparation falling within paragraph 6 of Part I of this Schedule. 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
33 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART III 
CLASS C DRUGS 
1. The following substances, namely— 
Alprazolam 
Halazepam 
Benzphetamine 
Haloxazolam 
Bromazepam 
Ketazolam 
Buprenorphine 
Loprazolam 
Camazepam 
Lorazepam 
Cathine 
Lormetazepam 
Cathinone 
Mazindl 
Chlordiazepoide 
Medazepam 
Chlorphentermine 
Mefenorex 
Clobazam 
Mephenterime 
Clonazepam 
Meprobamate 
Clorazepic acid 
Methyprylone 
Clotiazepam 
Nimetazepam 
Cloxazolam 
Nitrazepam 
Delorazepam 
Nordazepam 
Dextropropoxyphene 
Oxazepam 
Diazepam 
Oxazolam 
Diethylpropion 
Pemoline 
Estazolam 
Phendimetrazine 
Ethchlorvynol 
Phentermine 
Ethinamate 
Pinazepam 
Ethyl loflazepate 
Pipradrol 
Fencamfamin 
Prazepam 
Fenethylline 
Propylhexedrine 
Fenproporex 
Pyrovalerone 
Fludiazepam 
Temazepam 
Flunitrazepam 
Tetrazepam 
Flurazepam 
Triazolam 
 
N-Ethylamphetamine 
2. Any stereoisomeric form of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 
of this Part of this Schedule not being phenylpropanolamine. 
3. Any salt of a substance for the time being specified in paragraph 1 or 2 of this Part 
of this Schedule. 
4. Any preparation or other product containing a substance for the time being specified 
in any of paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Part of this Schedule. 
34 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PART IV 
MEANING OF CERTAIN EXPRESSIONS USED IN THIS SCHEDULE 
For the purpose of this Schedule the following expressions (which are not among those 
defined in section 37(1) of this Act) have the meanings hereby assigned to them 
respectively, that is to say— 
“cannabinol derivatives” means the following substances, except where contained in 
cannabis or cannabis resin, namely tetrahydro derivatives of cannabinol and 3-alkyl 
homologues of cannabinol or of its tetrahydro derivatives; 
“coca leaf” means the leaf of any plant of the genus Erythroxylon from whose leaves 
cocaine can be extracted either directly or by chemical transformation; 
“concentrate of poppy-straw” means the material produced when poppy-straw has entered 
into a process for the concentration of its alkaloids; 
“medicinal opium” means raw opium which has undergone the process necessary to adapt it 
for medicinal use in accordance with the requirements of the British Pharmacopoeia, 
whether it is in the form of powder or is granulated or is in any other form, and 
whether it is or is not mixed with neutral substances; 
“opium poppy” means the plant of the species Papaver somniferum L; 
“poppy straw” means all parts, except the seeds, of the opium poppy, after mowing; 
“raw opium” includes powdered or granulated opium but does not include medicinal opium. 
(Substituted by Act 4 of 1992) 
____________ 
 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
35 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
SCHEDULE 3 
(Section 28) 
PROSECUTION AND PUNISHMENT OF OFFENCES 
Section 
Creating 
Offence 
General 
Nature of 
Offence 
Punishment 
Mode of 
Prosecution 
Class A 
Drug 
involved 
Class B 
Drug 
involved 
Class C 
Drug 
involved 
General 
Section 
7(1) 
(substi-
tuted by 
Act 1 of 
1995) 
 
(a) Summary 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
2 years 
and 
$75,000 
 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
7 years 
and 
$200,000 
7 years 
and 
$200,000 
5 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
Section 
8(2) 
Cultivation 
of Cannabis 
plant 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
10 
Being the 
occupier or 
concerned in 
the 
management 
of premises 
and 
permitting 
or suffering 
certain 
activities to 
take place 
there 
(a) Summary 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
2 years 
and 
$75,000 
 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
 
Section 
11 
Offences 
relating to 
controlled 
drugs 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
2 years 
and 
$75,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
 
 
36 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Section 
Creating 
Offence 
General 
Nature of 
Offence 
Punishment 
Mode of 
Prosecution 
Class A 
Drug 
involved 
Class B 
Drug 
involved 
Class C 
Drug 
involved 
General 
Section 
13(2) 
Contraventi
on of 
directions 
relating to 
safe custody 
of controlled 
drugs 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
14(6) 
Contraventi
on of 
direction 
prohibiting 
practitioner, 
etc. from 
possessing, 
supplying, 
etc. 
controlled 
drugs 
(a) Summary 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
2 years 
and 
$75,000 
 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
 
Section 
15(2) 
Contraventi
on of 
direction 
prohibiting 
practitioner, 
etc. from 
prescribing, 
supplying, 
etc. 
controlled 
drugs 
(a) Summary 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
2 years 
and 
$75,000 
 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
 
Section 
17(3) 
Failure to 
comply with 
notice 
requiring 
information 
relating to 
prescribing, 
supply, etc. 
of drugs 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
$75,000 
 
 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
37 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
Section 
Creating 
Offence 
General 
Nature of 
Offence 
Punishment 
Mode of 
Prosecution 
Class A 
Drug 
involved 
Class B 
Drug 
involved 
Class C 
Drug 
involved 
General 
Section 
17(4) 
Giving false 
information in 
purported 
compliance 
with notice 
requiring 
information 
relating to 
prescribing, 
supply, etc. of 
drugs 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
18(1) 
Contravention 
of regulations 
(other than 
regulations 
relating to 
addicts) 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
18(2) 
Contravention 
of terms of 
licence or 
authority 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
18(3) 
Giving false 
information 
on purported 
compliance 
with 
obligation to 
give 
information 
imposed 
under or by 
virtue of 
regulations 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
 
38 
Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act 
Revision Date: 1 Jan 2020 
 
LAW OF 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
Section 
Creating 
Offence 
General Nature 
of Offence 
Punishment 
Mode of 
Prosecution 
Class A 
Drug 
involved 
Class B 
Drug 
involved 
Class C 
Drug 
involved 
General 
Section 
18(4) 
Giving false 
information or 
producing 
document, etc. 
containing false 
statement, etc. 
for purposes of 
obtaining issue 
or renewal of a 
licence or other 
authority 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
10 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
20 
Assisting in or 
inducing 
commission 
outside the 
Territory of an 
offence 
punishable 
under a 
corresponding 
law 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
Section 
23(8) 
Obstructing 
exercise of 
powers of 
search etc. 
failing to stop, 
preventing the 
person in in 
charge from 
stopping, 
leaving a 
stopped vehicle 
etc. or 
concealing 
books, drugs, 
etc. 
(a) Summary 
 
 
 
3 years 
and 
$100,000 
 
 
(b) On in-
dictment 
 
 
 
14 years 
and 
$200,000 
(Amended by Act 4 of 1992) 
__________
