SUSPICIOUS
TRANSACTION 
REPORTING FAQS
FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS
1Q: Who is obligated to file a report with the Financial Investigation Agency?
A: Financial Institutions. 
2Q. Which pieces of legislation requires
reporting entities to file a report with the FIA?
A. Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997, as
amended; the Drug Trafficking Offences Act,
1992, as amended; Anti-Money Laundering
and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice,
2008; Anti Money Laundering Regulations,
2008; Counter-Terrorism Act, 2021 and
Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act, 2021. 
3Q. What is a suspicious activity? 
A. Suspicious activities are acts that may
develop into financial transactions. This could
be where a potential client is hesitant to provide
documents necessary to conduct customer due
diligence or the use of false identification by
the customer. 
4Q.  What is a suspicious transaction?
A. Suspicious transactions are financial
transactions whereby there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that the funds involved in
the transaction are related to the proceeds of
criminal conduct. 
5Q. What are persons who are required to
file a report with the FIA referred to as?

A: Reporting entities
6Q. What will assist a reporting entity in
identifying or recognising suspicious activities
or transactions?
A. The key component in a reporting entity
being able to identify or recognise suspicious
activities or suspicious transactions is
knowing and understanding their customers,
clients and donors.
7Q. What is the form used to file suspicious
activities and suspicious transactions called? 

A. Suspicious Transaction Report 
8Q. When should an activity or transaction
be monitored closely? 

A. Any activity or transaction that creates
some feeling of uneasiness or wariness
should be monitored closely.
9Q. Where can a reporting entity look to find
indicators/red flags of suspicious  activities
or suspicious transactions? 
A. Section 56 and Schedule 3 of the Anti-
Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing
Code of Practice, 2008. 
10Q. How should transactions or activities be
evaluated? 
A. Transactions or activities should be
evaluated based on what seems appropriate
and within normal practices in each
respective line of business and based on the
knowledge of its clientele. 
11Q. What should happen if there are
reasonable grounds to suspect that a
transaction or activity is related to the
attempted commission or commission of a
money 
laundering/terrorist 
financing/
proliferation financing offence?
A. You are required to file a suspicious
transaction report with the FIA as soon as the
suspicious activity or suspicious transaction
is detected. 
12Q. Should a suspicious transaction report
also be filed with the FIA in instances where
the reporting entity is uncertain as to
whether the information substantiates a
suspicion? 
A. Yes, a suspicious transaction report should
also be filed in such instances. Such
information should be provided in the report
to the FIA.
13Q. Who should file the suspicious
transaction report with the FIA? 
A. The Money Laundering Reporting Officer
("MLRO") should file. Outside of this, any
natural 
person 
who, 
during 
their
employment, has reasonable grounds to
suspect that a person is engaged in money
laundering/terrorist financing/proliferation
financing should file. 
15Q. What information should I put in the
suspicious transaction report?
A. All of the applicable fields on the form
should be filled in. If a field does not apply,
just insert N/A in the field. 
14Q. What are the three types of disclosures
to choose from on the STR form when
making a filing with the FIA? 
A. There are three types of disclosures to
choose 
from; 
1) 
Initial 
Report, 
2)
Supplemental Report and 3) Correction
Report.
16Q. When should the initial report option
on the STR form be selected? 
A. The initial report option should be selected
if a report is being filed on the person/entity
of interest for the first time. 
17Q. Will a reporting entity be held liable for
filing a suspicious transaction report with the
FIA? 
A. No. A reporting entity will not be held
liable for filing a suspicious transaction
report with the FIA. This protection even
extends to information provided voluntarily
to the FIA due to suspicions of financial
crimes, such as money laundering. 
18Q. Is it an offence if I know or suspect that
another person is engaged in criminal
activity, such as money laundering, but I
decide not to file a suspicious transaction
report with the FIA? 
A. Yes. A person commits an offence if
he/she knows or suspects or has reasonable
grounds for knowing or suspecting that
another person is engaged in financial
crimes such as money laundering, but
chooses not to disclose such information via
a suspicious transaction report to the FIA. 
19Q. What is the penalty for failing to comply
with the suspicious transaction reporting
obligations? 
A. The penalties can be criminal or
administrative. If a fine is imposed as a
criminal penalty, the amount can range from
$150,000 to $500,000. If imprisonment is
imposed, 
the 
length 
of 
time 
for
imprisonment ranges from three to five
years. 
If a fine is imposed as an administrative
penalty, the amount that will be imposed for
failure to comply with the suspicious
transaction reporting obligations is $70,000.
P.O. Box 4090 | Road Town, Tortola |
 VG1110 | British Virgin Islands
(284) 852-3200
info@fiabvi.vg
