FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – JUNE 2024 
 
The Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) has issued its latest public statements identifying 
jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter financing of 
terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – 28 June 2024; and 
2. Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – 28 June 2024.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action  
 
High-risk jurisdictions have significant strategic deficiencies in their AML/CFT/CPF regimes.  For 
all countries identified as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges all jurisdictions to 
apply enhanced due diligence and, in the most serious cases, to apply counter-measures to 
protect the international financial system from the ML, TF and PF risks emanating from the 
country. 
 
A. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply Countermeasures  
 
DPRK - the FATF remains concerned by the DPRK’s continued failure to address the significant 
deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime and the serious threats posed by the DPRK’s illicit activities 
related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs). 
 
The FATF has re-emphasised the need for jurisdictions to implement targeted financial sanctions 
in accordance with applicable United Nations Security Council Resolutions (UNSCR) and to apply 
the following counter-measures to protect financial sectors from ML/TF/PF risks emanating from 
the DPRK.  
• 
Terminate correspondent relationships with DPRK banks; 
• 
Close any subsidiaries or branches of DPRK banks in their countries; and 
• 
Limit business relationships and financial transactions with DPRK persons.  
The FATF also indicated that the ability to obtain reliable and credible information to support the 
assessment of PF risks relating to the DPRK has been hampered by the recent termination of the 
UN 1718 Committee Panel of Experts mandate. Thus, the FATF will monitor the measures to 
comply with DPRK targeted financial sanctions and the implementation of countermeasures 
against DPRK.  
Due to DPRK’s increased connectivity with the international financial system, which raises 
proliferation financing (PF) risks, the FATF has called for greater vigilance and renewed 
implementation and enforcement of countermeasures against the DPRK. The FATF also urges 
countries to adequately assess and account for the increased proliferation financing risk given 
the greater financial connectivity reported. 
As set out in UNSCR 2270, DPRK frequently uses front companies, shell companies, joint ventures 
and complex, opaque ownership structures for the purpose of violating sanctions. The FATF 
therefore encourages all countries to apply enhanced due diligence to the DPRK and its ability to 
facilitate transactions on its behalf.  
 
Iran – The FATF remains concerned with the TF risk emanating from Iran and the threat this poses 
to the international financial system given Iran’s failure to enact the Palermo and Terrorist 
Financing Conventions in line with FATF Standards.   As such, the FATF has fully lifted its 
suspension of counter-measures and calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply 
effective counter-measures, in line with Recommendation 19.   
 
B. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply ECDD Measures   
 
Myanmar remains on the FATF’s list of countries subject to a call for action based on its slow 
progress in completing its action plan to address deficiencies identified in its Mutual Evaluation 
Report.  As such, the FATF has called on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply enhanced 
due diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from business relations and transactions 
with Myanmar. As part of jurisdictions’ enhanced due diligence measures, financial institutions 
should increase the degree and nature of monitoring of business relationships, in order to 
determine whether those transactions or activities appear unusual or suspicious.  However, 
when applying enhanced due diligence measures, countries should ensure that the flows of funds 
for humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances are not disrupted.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action can be found here. 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 21 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’ These jurisdictions are actively working with the FATF to 
address strategic deficiencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist financing, 
and proliferation financing. When the FATF places a jurisdiction under increased monitoring, it 
means the country has committed to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies within 
agreed timeframes and is subject to increased monitoring.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  The 
FATF calls for the application of a risk-based approach when dealing with these countries and 
does not envisage de-risking, or cutting-off entire classes of customers.  The FATF encourages its 
members and all jurisdictions to take into account the information presented in the updated 
statements provided in the links below when carrying out their risk analysis.  
 
Since the June 2024 review, the FATF has listed Monaco and Venezuela.  Statements issued in 
relation to Kenya, Namibia, Syria and Yemen are also included but may not necessarily reflect 
the most recent status of these jurisdictions’ AML/CFT regime as these countries chose to defer 
reporting.  
 
• Bulgaira 
• Nigeria  
• Burkina Faso 
• Philippines 
• Cameroon 
• Senegal 
• Croatia 
• South Africa 
• Democratic Republic of the 
Congo 
• South Sudan 
• 
Haiti 
• 
Syria 
• Kenya 
• Tanzania 
• Mali 
• Venezuela 
• Monaco 
• Vietnam 
• Mozambique 
• Yemen 
• Namibia 
 
 
Following the June review Jamaica and Turkey were removed from the list as the FATF recognised 
the significant progress made by these jurisdictions in improving their AML/CFT regime.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on each of the countries under increased monitoring can be 
found here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.   
 
The FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that the 
FATF’s public statements have identified. 
