FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – OCTOBER 2022 
 
On 21 October 2022, the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) issued its latest public statements 
identifying jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter 
financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – 21 October 2022; and 
2.  Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – 21 October 2022.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action 
In this latest public statement, the FATF continues to call on its members and urges all 
jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence, and, in the most serious cases, other counter 
measures, to protect the international financial system from the money laundering, terrorist 
financing, and proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from Iran and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK).  These jurisdictions have been identified as high-risk given 
the significant strategic deficiencies identified in their regimes to counter money ML, TF and PF.  
 
Persons should refer to the FATF statement on these jurisdictions adopted in February 2020.  
While the statement may not necessarily reflect the most recent status in Iran and the DPRK’s 
AML/CFT regime, the FATF’s call for action on these high-risk jurisdictions remains in effect. 
 
In addition, the FATF has now added Myanmar to its list of high-risk jurisdictions given 
Myanmar’s continued lack of progress to complete its action to address deficiencies identified in 
its Mutual Evaluation Report.  As such, the FATF has called on its members and urges all 
jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from 
business relations and transactions with Myanmar.  The FATF’s public statement on Myanmar 
can be found here. 
 
The FATF has also noted that when applying enhanced due diligence measures, countries should 
ensure that flows of funds for humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances 
are not disrupted. 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 23 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’  Since the June review, the FATF has also listed the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Mozambique and Tanzania.  These countries are 
actively working with the FATF to address the strategic deficiencies within their AML/CFT/CPF 
regimes.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  
However, the FATF encourages its members and all jurisdictions to take into account the 
information presented in the updated statements provided in the links below for the countries 
that had their progress reviewed by the FATF since June 2022, in their risk analysis. 
 
The statement issued in June 2022 in relation to the Gibraltar is also included but may not 
necessarily reflect the most recent status of the jurisdiction’s AML/CFT regime as Gibraltar chose 
to defer reporting in October 2022.  
 
Albania 
Morocco 
Barbados 
Mozambique 
Burkina Faso 
Panama 
Cambodia 
Philippines 
Cayman Islands 
Senegal 
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
South Sudan 
Gibraltar 
Syria 
Haiti 
Tanzania 
Jamaica 
Turkey 
Jordan 
Uganda 
Mali 
United Arab Emirates 
 
Yemen 
 
Following the June review Nicaragua and Pakistan were removed from the list as the FATF 
recognised the significant progress made by these countries in improving their AML/CFT regime.  
 
The FATF Statements of 21 October 2022 are reproduced in full here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.  The 
FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that have 
been identified by the FATF’s public statements. 
 
