FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – FEBRUARY 2025 
 
The Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) has issued its latest public statements identifying 
jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter financing of 
terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – 21 February 2025; and 
2. Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – 21 February 2025.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action  
 
High-risk jurisdictions have significant strategic deficiencies in their AML/CFT/CPF regimes.  For 
all countries identified as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges all jurisdictions to 
apply enhanced due diligence and, in the most serious cases, to apply counter-measures to 
protect the international financial system from the ML, TF and PF risks emanating from the 
country. 
 
A. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply Countermeasures  
 
DPRK - the FATF remains concerned by the DPRK’s continued failure to address the significant 
deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime and the serious threats posed by the DPRK’s illicit activities 
related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs). 
 
The FATF has re-iterated the need for jurisdictions to robustly implement targeted financial 
sanctions in accordance with applicable United Nations Security Council Resolutions (UNSCR) and 
to apply the following counter-measures to protect financial sectors from ML/TF/PF risks 
emanating from the DPRK.  
• 
Terminate correspondent relationships with DPRK banks; 
• 
Close any subsidiaries or branches of DPRK banks in their countries; and 
• 
Limit business relationships and financial transactions with DPRK persons.  
The FATF also indicated that despite these calls, DPRK has increased connectivity with the 
international financial system, which raises proliferation financing (PF) risks, as noted in February 
2024. This requires greater vigilance and renewed implementation and enforcement 
countermeasures. As such, all countries are encouraged to apply enhanced due diligence to the 
DPRK and its ability to facilitate transactions on its behalf. 
As set out in UNSCR 2270, DPRK frequently uses front companies, shell companies, joint ventures 
and complex, opaque ownership structures for the purpose of violating sanctions. However, the 
ability to obtain reliable and credible information to support the assessment of PF risks relating 
to the DPRK has been hampered by the recent termination of the UN 1718 Committee Panel of 
Experts mandate. The FATF will, therefore, monitor the measures to comply with DPRK targeted 
financial sanctions and the implementation of countermeasures against DPRK.  
Iran – The FATF remains concerned with the TF risk emanating from Iran and the threat this poses 
to the international financial system due to the deficiencies identified in its Action Plan with 
respect to countering terrorism-financing.  Given Iran’s failure to enact the Palermo and Terrorist 
Financing Conventions in line with FATF Standards the FATF has fully lifted its suspension of 
counter-measures and calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply effective counter-
measures, in line with Recommendation 19.  The Interpretative Note to Recommendation 19 
specifies examples of the countermeasures that could be undertaken by countries. 
 
B. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply ECDD Measures   
 
Myanmar remains on the FATF’s list of countries subject to a call for action.  While overall 
progress on completing its action plan to address deficiencies identified in its Mutual Evaluation 
Report continues to be slow, Myanmar has made recent progress against several items in its 
action plan. As such, the FATF calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply enhanced 
due diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from business relations and transactions 
with Myanmar. As part of jurisdictions’ enhanced due diligence measures, financial institutions 
should increase the degree and nature of monitoring of business relationships, in order to 
determine whether those transactions or activities appear unusual or suspicious.  However, 
when applying enhanced due diligence measures, countries should ensure that the flows of funds 
for humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances are not disrupted.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action can be found here. 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 25 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’ These jurisdictions are actively working with the FATF to 
address strategic deficiencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist financing, 
and proliferation financing. When the FATF places a jurisdiction under increased monitoring, it 
means the country has committed to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies within 
agreed timeframes and is subject to increased monitoring.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  The 
FATF calls for the application of a risk-based approach when dealing with these countries and 
does not envisage de-risking or cutting-off entire classes of customers.  The FATF encourages its 
members and all jurisdictions to take into account the information presented in the updated 
statements provided in the links below when carrying out their risk analysis.  
 
Since the February 2025 review, the FATF has listed Lao PDR and Nepal.  Statements issued in 
relation to Algeria, Angola, Cote d’Ivoire, Haiti, Lebanon, Monaco, Syria and Yemen are also 
included but may not necessarily reflect the most recent status of these jurisdictions’ AML/CFT 
regime as these countries chose to defer reporting.  
 
• Algeria 
• Mali 
• Angola 
• Monaco 
• Bulgaira 
• Mozambique 
• Burkina Faso 
• Namibia 
• Cameroon 
• Nepal 
• Cote d’Ivoire 
• Nigeria 
• 
Croatia 
• 
South Africa 
• Democratic Republic of the 
Congo 
• South Sudan 
• Haiti 
• Syria 
• Kenya 
• Tanzania 
• Lao PDR 
• Venezuela 
• Lebanon 
• Vietnam 
• Yemen 
•  
 
Following the February review the Philippines was removed from the list as the FATF recognised 
the significant progress made in improving its AML/CFT regime.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on each of the countries under increased monitoring can be 
found here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.   
 
The FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that the 
FATF’s public statements have identified. 
