 
 
FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – JUNE 2025 
 
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has issued its latest public statements identifying 
jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter financing of 
terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – 13 June 2025; and 
2. Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – 13 June 2025.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action  
 
High-risk jurisdictions have significant strategic deficiencies in their AML/CFT/CPF regimes.  For 
all countries identified as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges all jurisdictions to 
apply enhanced due diligence and, in the most serious cases, to apply countermeasures to 
protect the international financial system from the ML, TF, and PF risks emanating from the 
country. 
 
A. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply Countermeasures  
 
DPRK - the FATF remains concerned by the DPRK’s continued failure to address the significant 
deficiencies in its AML/CFT regime and the serious threats posed by the DPRK’s illicit activities 
related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs). 
 
The FATF has reiterated the need for jurisdictions to robustly implement targeted financial 
sanctions in accordance with applicable United Nations Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs) 
and to apply the following countermeasures to protect financial sectors from ML/TF/PF risks 
emanating from the DPRK.  
• 
Terminate correspondent relationships with DPRK banks; 
• 
Close any subsidiaries or branches of DPRK banks in their countries; and 
• 
Limit business relationships and financial transactions with DPRK persons.  
The FATF also indicated that despite these calls, DPRK has increased connectivity with the 
international financial system, which raises proliferation financing (PF) risks, as noted in February 
2024. This requires greater vigilance and renewed implementation and enforcement 
countermeasures. As such, all countries are encouraged to apply enhanced due diligence to the 
DPRK and its ability to facilitate transactions on its behalf. 
 
 
As set out in UNSCR 2270, DPRK frequently uses front companies, shell companies, joint ventures 
and complex, opaque ownership structures for the purpose of violating sanctions. However, the 
ability to obtain reliable and credible information to support the assessment of PF risks relating 
to the DPRK has been hampered by the recent termination of the UN 1718 Committee Panel of 
Experts mandate. The FATF will, therefore, monitor the measures to comply with DPRK-targeted 
financial sanctions and the implementation of countermeasures against DPRK.  
Iran – The FATF remains concerned about the lack of progress Iran has made in addressing the 
deficiencies identified in its Action Plan, particularly with respect to countering terrorism-
financing and the threat this poses to the international financial system.  Given Iran’s failure to 
enact the Palermo and Terrorist Financing Conventions in line with FATF Standards, the FATF has 
fully lifted its suspension of countermeasures and calls on its members to apply effective 
countermeasures, in line with Recommendation 19.  All jurisdictions are urged to: require 
increased supervisory examination for branches and subsidiaries of financial institutions based 
in Iran; introduce enhanced relevant reporting mechanisms or systematic reporting of financial 
transactions; and require increased external audit requirements for financial groups with respect 
to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran. See the Interpretative Note to 
Recommendation 19 for further examples of the countermeasures that could be undertaken by 
countries. 
 
B. High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call to Apply ECDD Measures   
 
Myanmar remains on the FATF’s list of countries subject to a call for action, given the continued 
lack of progress in addressing the majority of its action items by the deadlines set in its action 
plan.  As such, the FATF calls on its members and urges all jurisdictions to apply enhanced due 
diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from business relations and transactions with 
Myanmar. As part of jurisdictions’ enhanced due diligence measures, financial institutions should 
increase the degree and nature of monitoring of business relationships, in order to determine 
whether those transactions or activities appear unusual or suspicious.  However, when applying 
enhanced due diligence measures, countries should ensure that the flows of funds for 
humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances are not disrupted.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action can be found here. 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 23 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’ These jurisdictions are actively working with the FATF to 
address strategic deficiencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist financing, 
and proliferation financing. When the FATF places a jurisdiction under increased monitoring, it 
 
 
means the country has committed to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies within 
agreed timeframes and is subject to increased monitoring.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  The 
FATF calls for the application of a risk-based approach when dealing with these countries and 
does not envisage de-risking or cutting-off entire classes of customers.  The FATF encourages its 
members and all jurisdictions to take into account the information presented in the updated 
statements provided in the links below when carrying out their risk analysis.  
 
Since the June 2025 review, the FATF has listed Boliva and the Virgin Islands.  Statements issued 
in relation to Algeria, Lao PDR, Lebanon, Nepal, Syria and Yemen are also included but may not 
necessarily reflect the most recent status of these jurisdictions’ AML/CFT regime as these 
countries chose to defer reporting.  
 
• Algeria 
• Lebanon 
• Angola 
• Monaco 
• Bolivia 
• Mozambique 
• Bulgaira 
• Namibia 
• Burkina Faso 
• Nepal 
• Cameroon 
• Nigeria 
• Cote d’Ivoire 
• South Africa 
• 
Democratic Republic of the 
Congo 
• 
South Sudan 
 
 
• Haiti 
• Syria 
• Kenya 
• Venezuela 
• Lao PDR 
• Vietnam 
•  
• Virgin Islands 
 
Following the June review, Croatia, Mali, and Tanzania were removed from the list as the FATF 
recognised the significant progress made in improving their AML/CFT regimes.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement on each of the countries under increased monitoring can be 
found here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.   
 
The FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that the 
FATF’s public statements have identified. 
