FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – FEBRUARY 2023 
 
On 24 February 2023, the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) issued its latest public statements 
identifying jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter 
financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – 24 February 2023; and 
2.  Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – 24 February 2023.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions Subject to a Call for Action 
In this latest public statement, the FATF continues to call on its members and urges all 
jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence, and, in the most serious cases, other counter 
measures, to protect the international financial system from the money laundering, terrorist 
financing, and proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea (DPRK), Iran and Myanmar.   
 
DPRK has been identified as high-risk given the significant strategic deficiencies identified in its 
regime to counter money ML, TF and PF and the serious threats they pose to the integrity of the 
international financial system.  
 
Iran remains on the FATF’s list of high-risk jurisdictions given its failure to enact the Palermo and 
Terrorist Financing Conventions in line with FATF Standards and urges all jurisdictions to apply 
effective counter measures. 
 
Persons should refer to the FATF statement on these jurisdictions adopted in February 2020.   
While the statement may not necessarily reflect the most recent status in Iran and the DPRK’s 
AML/CFT regime, the FATF’s call for action on these high-risk jurisdictions remains in effect. 
 
Myanmar remains on the FATF’s list of countries subject to a call for action based on its continued 
lack of progress to complete its action plan to address deficiencies identified in its Mutual 
Evaluation Report.  As such, the FATF has called on its members and urges all jurisdictions to 
apply enhanced due diligence measures proportionate to the risk arising from business relations 
and transactions with Myanmar.  However, countries should ensure that flows of funds for 
humanitarian assistance, legitimate NPO activity and remittances are not disrupted.  
 
The FATF’s full public statement can be found here. 
 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 23 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’  Since the October review, the FATF has listed the Nigeria 
and South Africa.  These countries are actively working with the FATF to address the strategic 
deficiencies within their AML/CFT/CPF regimes.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  The 
FATF calls for the application of a risk-based approach when dealing with these countries and 
encourages its members and all jurisdictions to take into account the information presented in 
the updated statements provided in the links below when carrying out their risk analysis.  
 
Statements issued in October 2022 in relation to The Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Mozambique and Tanzania are also included but may not necessarily reflect the most recent 
status of these jurisdictions’ AML/CFT regime as these countries chose to defer reporting in 
October 2022.  
 
Albania 
Panama 
Barbados 
Philippines 
Burkina Faso 
Senegal 
Cayman Islands 
South Africa 
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
South Sudan 
Gibraltar 
Syria 
Haiti 
Tanzania 
Jamaica 
Turkey 
Jordan 
Uganda 
Mali 
United Arab Emirates 
Mozambique 
Yemen 
Nigeria 
 
 
Following the October review Cambodia and Morocco were removed from the list as the FATF 
recognised the significant progress made by these countries in improving their AML/CFT regime.  
 
The FATF Statements of 21 October 2022 are reproduced in full here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.  The 
FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that have 
been identified by the FATF’s public statements. 
 
