FATF PUBLIC STATEMENTS – JUNE 2022 
 
On 17 June 2022, the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) issued its latest public statements 
identifying jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in their anti-money laundering and counter 
financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regimes: 
 
1. “High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action – March 2022”; and 
2.  “Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring – March 2022”.  
 
High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action 
In this latest public statement, the FATF continues to call on its members and urges all 
jurisdictions to apply enhanced due diligence, and, in the most serious cases, other counter 
measures, to protect the international financial system from the money laundering, terrorist 
financing, and proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from Iran and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea’s (“DPRK”).  These jurisdictions have been identified as high-risk given 
the significant strategic deficiencies identified in their regimes to counter money ML, TF and PF.  
 
Since February 2020, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the FATF has indicated that the review 
process for the list of High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action remains on pause given 
that these countries are already subject to the FATF’s call for countermeasures.  
 
Persons should refer to the FATF statement on these jurisdictions adopted in February 2020.  
While the statement may not necessarily reflect the most recent status in Iran and the DPRK’s 
AML/CFT regime, the FATF’s call for action on these high-risk jurisdictions remains in effect. 
 
Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring 
There are currently 23 countries under and subject to increased monitoring by the FATF, 
otherwise referred to as a ‘grey list.’  Since the March review, the FATF has also listed Gibraltar.  
These countries are actively working with the FATF to address the strategic deficiencies within 
their AML/CFT/CPF regimes.  
 
There is no requirement to apply enhanced due diligence measures to these jurisdictions.  
However, the FATF encourages its members and all jurisdictions to take into account the 
information presented in the updated statements provided in the links below for the countries 
that had their progress reviewed by the FATF since March 2022 in their risk analysis. 
 
The statement issued in March 2022 in relation to the United Arab Emirates is also included but 
may not necessarily reflect the most recent status of the jurisdiction’s AML/CFT regime as the 
UAE chose to defer reporting in June 2022.  
 
Albania 
Nicaragua 
Barbados 
Pakistan 
Burkina Faso 
Panama 
Cambodia 
Philippines 
Cayman Islands 
Senegal 
Gibraltar 
South Sudan 
Haiti 
Syria 
Jamaica 
Turkey 
Jordan 
Uganda 
Mali 
United Arab Emirates 
Morocco 
Yemen 
Myanmar 
 
 
 
Following the March review Malta was removed from the list as the FATF recognised the 
significant progress made by Malta in improving its AML/CFT regime.  
 
The FATF Statements of 17 June 2022 are reproduced in full here. 
 
The British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission (“FSC”) wishes to advise the general 
public, including all persons who are required to comply with the requirements of the Anti-
Money Laundering Regulations, 2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Code of Practice, 2008, to note the concerns expressed by the FATF with respect to the named 
jurisdictions and consider the associated money laundering and/or terrorist financing risks.  The 
FSC encourages all to apply appropriate or enhanced customer due diligence measures when 
dealing with customers or handling transactions connected with any of the jurisdictions that have 
been identified by the FATF’s public statements. 
 
