 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
British Virgin Islands 
Financial Services Commission 
AML/CFT POLICY 
 
 
 
 
Reference: AML-010 
Publication Date:  19th March, 2020 
Version: 1.0 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 2 of 26 
 
 
 
 
 
Document title 
 
AML/CFT POLICY 
BVI Financial Services Commission  
 
 
Approving body 
Date of approval 
 
Board of Commissioners  
BVI Financial Services Commission  
 
 
 
25th February, 2020 
Related documents 
Version 
Reference 
 
AML/CFT STRATEGY 2020-2022 
 
 
 
1.0 
 
AML-010 
Effective date 
 
25th February, 2020 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 3 of 26 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Approval of the Board of Commissioners ………………………………………………...… 3 
1. Introduction ……………………..………………………………………..…………..… 4 
2. Background …………………………………………………………..………………..… 6 
3. Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing ………………………..……………. 7 
4. The Virgin Islands AML/CFT Framework ……………………….…..………………… 9  
5. The Commission’s Role in the National Framework ……………..……….……. 16 
6. Identified Threats and Vulnerabilities ………………………………...…………... 17 
7. Identified ML, TF and PF Risks Levels ………………………………….…………….. 19 
8. The Commission’s AML/CFT Objectives .………………..…………………………….. 21 
9. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation ………………...………….……………..… 23 
List of Acronyms …………………………………………………………………………... 24 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 4 of 26 
 
 
Approval of the Board of Commissioners  
 
The adoption of the BVI Financial Services Commission’s AML/CFT Policy was approved 
by the BVI Financial Services Commission Board of Commissioners on 25th February, 2020. 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 5 of 26 
 
1. Introduction  
1.1 It is recognised globally that the fight against ML, TF and PF has to be a coordinated 
global effort if positive results are to be achieved, as ML TF and PF permeate national 
borders. The Virgin Islands recognises the global concern regarding ML, TF and PF, 
and the ramifications of such activities on the integrity of the Territory’s financial 
system, the stability of its economy, and the safety of its citizens.  
1.2 As an International Finance Centre the Virgin Islands remains committed to the 
global fight against ML/TF/PF by ensuring that, as a territory, it is in compliance with 
the FATF’s International Standards on Combatting Money Laundering and the 
Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation (the FATF Recommendations).  
1.3 The BVI Financial Services Commission (the Commission), as an autonomous 
regulatory authority responsible for the regulation, supervision, and inspection of all 
financial services in and from within the Virgin Islands, is responsible for upholding 
the integrity of the Virgin Islands as a well-regulated international finance centre and 
safeguarding the economic interests of the Territory by: 
• 
protecting the interests of the general public and market participants; 
• 
ensuring industry compliance with the highest international regulatory standards 
and best business practices; and 
• 
ensuring that the Virgin Islands plays its part in the fight against trans-national 
crime while safeguarding the privacy and confidentiality of legitimate business 
transactions. 
1.4 The Commission, having been established through the Financial Services 
Commission Act, 2001 authorises and supervises entities and persons who 
conduct financial services business in compliance with relevant Virgin Islands 
legislation.  
1.5 The following regulated activities are considered financial services business:  
a) Insurance – includes the provision of insurance productions and related services 
covering insurance brokers, insurance agents, insurance loss adjusters and 
insurance managers.  
b) Banking - includes the provision of general banking services including loans, 
savings accounts, and fixed deposits.   
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 6 of 26 
 
c) Fiduciary Services - includes the provision of trustee services, company 
management business, registered office and registered agent services, directorships 
and other services. 
d) Investment Business - includes services related to the dealing or arranging of deals 
in investments, managing investments, providing investment advice, providing 
custodial or administration services with respect to investments, operating an 
investment exchange, or acting as an investment adviser or investment manager. 
e) Financing and Money Services Business - includes the provision of credit under 
financing agreements, leasing of property under a financing lease, provision of 
money transmission services, cheque cashing services, currency exchange 
services, the issuance, sale or redemption of money orders or traveller’s cheques, 
as well as the provision of lending in the peer-to-peer (P2P) FinTech market, 
including peer-to-business (P2B) and business-to-business (B2B) markets. 
f) Insolvency Services - includes appointments as administrators, administrative 
receivers, interim supervisors, supervisors, provisional liquidators, liquidators or 
bankruptcy trustees. 
1.6 The Commission’s licensing regime is geared towards protecting market 
participants by preventing those individuals, who may be inclined on using the 
Virgin Islands for illicit or criminal purposes, from establishing corporate 
structures in the Territory and providing services to entities that may wish to 
operate in or from within the jurisdiction, or using the Territory’s financial 
system to funnel illicit gains or fund illicit operations.  
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 7 of 26 
 
2. Background 
2.1 The objective of this AML/CFT1 policy framework is to strengthen the 
Commission’s supervisory, enforcement and domestic and international co-
operation regimes, thereby assisting in preventing money laundering and any 
activity that facilitates money laundering, the funding of terrorists or other 
criminal activities in or from within the Virgin Islands. 
 
2.2 The policy has been developed systematically and strategically by first seeking 
to provide a thorough understanding of ML, TF and PF and how these matters 
are addressed through the Virgin Islands’ legislative framework, and outlining 
the role the Commission plays in ensuring compliance with the Territory's 
AML/CFT systems through the enforcement of relevant AML/CFT legislation.     
 
2.3 The policy takes an in depth look at the ML, TF and PF risks emanating from 
the threats identified in relation to the Territory’s AML/CFT regime relative to the 
Commission, and the vulnerabilities identified that represent weaknesses in the 
Commission’s AML/CFT system which may support or facilitate the threat activities.  
 
2.4 The potential consequences of the identified risks include, inter alia, poor risk 
mitigation, inadequate and ineffective supervision and monitoring, and an 
inability to co-operate, all of which could lead to reputational damage to the 
Territory and a negative impact on the overall economy.  In recognising the 
potential consequences of these risks, the Commission has developed an action 
plan to address the recommendations emanating from the NRA. In so doing, the 
Commission has taken a proactive approach to mitigating some of its risk.   
 
2.5 These actions, along with the Commission’s understanding of the Territory’s 
AML/CFT framework, the role it plays in ensuring compliance with the 
Territory's AML/CFT regime, its recognition of the risks emanating from the 
identified threats and vulnerabilities and potential consequences, as well as its 
ongoing review of current developments in international standards has resulted 
in the development of this policy framework.    
 
 
 
 
                                                          
1 For the purposes of this Policy references to AML/CFT also include PF 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 8 of 26 
 
3. Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
 
3.1 Money laundering is not a single act but is generally defined as “the processing of 
criminal proceeds to disguise their illegal origin”.2 Essentially, it is engaging in acts 
designed to conceal or disguise the true origins of criminally derived proceeds so that 
the proceeds appear to have originated from legitimate sources or constitute 
legitimate assets.  
 
3.2 Generally, money laundering occurs in three stages:   
 
1) Placement – funds generated from criminal activities enter the financial system 
and are converted into monetary instruments or deposited into accounts at 
financial institutions. The aim is to remove the funds from the location of 
acquisition to avoid detection by the authorities and to transform it into other 
assets e.g. purchase of high value goods, property or business assets. 
 
2) Layering – the funds are transferred or moved into other accounts or other 
financial institutions to further separate the money from its criminal origin. The 
aim is to disassociate the illegal monies from the source of the crime by creating a 
complex web of financial transactions designed to disguise the audit trail e.g. wire 
transfers using funds disguised as proceeds of legitimate business, cash deposited 
in overseas banking system and the resale of goods/assets. 
 
3) Integration – the funds are reintroduced into the legitimate economic and 
financial system and used to purchase legitimate assets or to fund other criminal 
activities or legitimate businesses thereby making it appear that the money has 
been legally earned e.g. false loan repayments or forged invoices, complex web of 
transfers both domestic and international. 
 
3.3 Terrorist financing may be described as the use of funds, or the making available of 
funds, for the purposes of terrorism; or the acquisition, possession, concealment, 
conversion or transfer of funds that are, directly or indirectly, intended to be used or 
made available for the purposes of terrorism.  TF may not involve the proceeds of 
criminal conduct, but rather an attempt to conceal either the origin of the funds or 
their intended use, which could be for criminal purposes.  A key difference between 
terrorist financiers and traditional criminal organizations is the legitimate sources of 
                                                          
2 FATF definition of ML found at www.fatf-gafic.org/faq/moneylaundering  
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 9 of 26 
 
funds used by terrorist financiers. In addition to charitable donations, legitimate 
sources include foreign government sponsors, business ownership and personal 
employment. Although the motivation differs between traditional money launderers 
and terrorist financiers, the actual methods used to fund terrorist operations can be 
the same as or similar to methods used by other criminals to launder funds. Funding 
for terrorist attacks does not always require large sums of money and the associated 
transactions may not be complex. 
 
3.4 Proliferation Financing “refers to the act of providing funds or financial services 
which are used, in whole or in part, for the manufacture, acquisition, possession, 
development, export, trans-shipment, brokering, transport, transfer, stockpiling or 
use of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery and related 
materials (including both technologies and dual use goods used for non-legitimate 
purposes), in contravention of national laws or, where applicable, international 
obligations”.3 In essence, any act of providing funds or financial services to any person 
(legal or otherwise) for purposes of financing the production or use of WMD 
constitutes an act of proliferation; this includes any form of technology or goods that 
have dual uses if used for purposes that are not legitimate. 
 
 
 
                                                          
3 See footnote 1 of FATF Best Practices Paper on “Sharing Among Domestic Competent Authorities Information 
Related to the Financing of Proliferation”, February 2012. 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 10 of 26 
 
4. The Virgin Islands AML/CFT Framework 
4.1 To ensure that the Virgin Islands’ AML/CFT legislative regime adheres to all relevant 
international standards, an extensive suite of laws and regulations have been 
developed to give effect to those obligations as set out in the international standards. 
 
4.2 The principal requirements and obligations that are currently in force and which are 
applicable to persons living or operating from or within the Virgin Islands are 
contained in the following legislation: 
 
A. Drug Trafficking Offences Act, 1992  
 
• Sections 5 and 10  empower the Court to issue confiscation orders to confiscate 
proceeds through the Police where such proceeds are suspected of being used in 
the commission of a drug trafficking offence or to benefit a defendant in the 
commission of  a drug trafficking offence; 
 
• Section 48  provides measures which permit Customs or the Police to seize or 
detain any cash found in the Territory (whether imported or exported) not less 
than ten thousand dollars, where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting 
that it represents drug trafficking  proceeds (directly or indirectly) or for use in 
drug trafficking or ML; 
 
• Section 33 (1) makes provision for the confiscation of any property which 
represents another person’s proceeds of drug trafficking which he acquires, 
transfers or has possession of;       
 
• Section 49 provides measures which enable the Magistrate to order the forfeiture 
of any cash seized under section 34 where the Police or Customs suspect that it 
represents cash intended for use in drug trafficking; and  
 
• Section 50 provides for the forfeiture of any property that represents the 
proceeds of drug trafficking or drug money laundering, whether or not the 
defendant is convicted of the offence.  
 
4.3 The Drug Trafficking Offences Act also gives effect to the provisions of the 
Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, 
1988.  It establishes the legal framework for the recovery of the proceeds of drug 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 11 of 26 
 
trafficking and, towards that end, it creates a regime of international co-operation on 
drug trafficking, including applications for confiscation, restraint and charging orders.  
 
4.4 The Drug Trafficking Offences Act is complemented by the Drug Trafficking 
(Designated Countries and Territories) Order, 1996. This Order deals with the details 
of the assistance to be provided to appropriate authorities of designated countries and 
territories in relation to drug trafficking and drug money laundering. Where no 
appropriate authority is specified in relation to a country or territory, the Governor 
is empowered to issue a certificate to the effect that the authority named therein is 
the appropriate authority.  
 
B. Criminal Justice (International Cooperation) Act, 1993 
 
4.5 The objective of the Criminal Justice International Cooperation Act is to create a 
flexible and comprehensive regime that enables the Virgin Islands to co-operate with 
other countries in matters pertaining to criminal investigations and proceedings; in 
addition, the Act regulates substances that are considered useful for the manufacture 
of controlled drugs and also creates a regime of hot-pursuit in apprehending vessels 
and persons concerned with drug offences. This latter regime, however, operates only 
on a bilateral arrangement, as currently exists between the Virgin Islands and the 
USA.  
 
• Section 9 provides measures for international cooperation in the enforcement of 
overseas forfeiture orders and applies to (among other things) any offence under 
the DPMA, or drug trafficking offences as defined in section 2 of the DTOA; and 
 
• Sections 12(6), 13(1) and (2), and 14(1) provide measures for international 
cooperation in the enforcement of confiscation orders in relation to the proceeds 
of drug trafficking. 
 
4.6 The Act is complemented by the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) 
(Enforcement of Overseas Forfeiture Orders) Order, 1996. This Order outlines the 
process for obtaining assistance in matters concerning the enforcement of 
confiscation orders as well as applications for restraint and charging orders. Its scope 
is also sufficiently broad to enable assistance to be rendered to any country or 
territory. 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 12 of 26 
 
 
 
C. Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997  
 
4.7 The Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act represents an all-crimes anti-money 
laundering legislation. It provides for the recovery of the proceeds of crime; in 
addition, it also establishes a regime for the registration and enforcement of external 
confiscation orders.  
 
• Sections 6 grants the Court power to make confiscation orders in relation to 
criminal conduct and applies where an offender is convicted of an indictable 
offence;  
 
• Section 32 provides measures to facilitate external confiscation orders and 
proceedings for external forfeiture orders which may be instituted in a 
designated country; and  
 
• Section 34 provides for forfeiture, after conviction, of any real property or any 
ship, vessel, boat, aircraft, vehicle or means of conveyance where the conviction 
relates to the offence of assisting another to retain the benefit of criminal 
conduct, or acquisition, possession or use of proceeds of criminal conduct, or 
concealing or transferring proceeds of criminal conduct. It further gives the 
Court power to order the defendant to pay any sum under the Act or serve a 
term of imprisonment in respect of the offence. 
 
4.8 The Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act is complemented by the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct (Designated Countries and Territories) Order, 1999.  This Order provides the 
process for enforcing a request to confiscate assets or applying for a restraint or 
charging order.  
 
D. Terrorism (United Nations Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2001 
 
4.9 The Terrorism (United Nations Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order prohibits the 
raising of funds for purposes of terrorism; it places restrictions on making funds 
available and providing financial services to terrorists. It creates a regime that allows 
for the disclosure of information, on the authority of the Governor, to the United 
Nations and any government of a country for the purpose of detecting evasion of 
measures relative to terrorism. 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 13 of 26 
 
E. Anti-terrorism (Financial and Other Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2002  
 
4.10 The Anti-terrorism (Financial and Other Measures)(Overseas Territories) Order 
restricts transactions in terrorist property and creates extra-territorial jurisdiction in 
respect of offences relative to terrorism – that is to say, engagement in fundraising or 
money laundering, using or possessing property or arranging fundraising activities, 
for terrorist purposes.  It also enables the registration and enforcement of foreign 
confiscation orders by an order of the Governor. 
 
4.11 The Order provides measures for the enforcement of forfeiture orders in relation to:  
 
• money or other property which is likely to be used for the purposes of terrorism;  
• proceeds of the commission of acts of terrorism; and  
• proceeds of acts carried out for the purposes of terrorism.   
 
F. Terrorist Asset-Freezing etc. Act 2010 (Overseas Territories) Order, 2011  
 
4.12 The Terrorist Asset-Freezing etc. Act 2010 (Overseas Territories) Order extends Part 
1 (including Part 1 of Schedule 2) of the United Kingdom’s Terrorist Asset-Freezing 
etc. Act 2010 to the Territory and replaces the existing power that the Territory has 
to freeze the assets of those suspected of being involved in terrorism under the 
Terrorism (United Nations Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order. 
 
G. Afghanistan (United Nations Measures)(Overseas Territories) Order, 2012  
 
4.13 The Afghanistan (United Nations Measures)(Overseas Territories) Order replaces the 
Al-Qaida and Taliban (United Nations Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2002  
and gives effect to UNSCR 1988 which maintains in force the sanctions first imposed 
by resolution 1267 (1999) against the Taliban.  This instrument enables the relevant 
authorities to take the necessary action to freeze assets in respect of the Taliban and 
persons associated with them, and to prohibit funds being made available to such 
persons. It also prohibits the supply of military goods and technical assistance related 
to military activities to designated persons. 
 
H. ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaida (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2016 
 
4.14 The ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaida (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order replaces the 
Al-Qaida (United Nations Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2012  and provides 
for the implementation of targeted financial sanctions pursuant to UNSCR 2253 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 14 of 26 
 
which maintains in force the sanctions first imposed by resolution 1267 (1999) but 
expressly extends the sanctions regime to ISIL (Da’esh).  This instrument, together 
with the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act and the Terrorism (United Nations 
Measures) (Overseas Territories) Order provides for, and enables the relevant 
authorities to take the necessary action to freeze funds of designated persons and 
entities in respect of targeted individuals, groups, undertakings and entities associated 
with ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaida, and to prohibit funds being made available to such 
persons. It also prohibits the supply of military goods and technical assistance related 
to military activities to designated persons. 
 
I. Anti-money Laundering Regulations, 2008  
 
4.15 The Anti-money Laundering Regulations foster the regulation/supervision of 
regulated and non-regulated entities by requiring the adoption of specified measures 
to guard against the activities of money laundering and terrorist financing and ensure 
the availability of information when requested.  
 
J. Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, 2008   
 
4.16 The Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice supplements 
the Anti-money Laundering Regulations and establishes a framework for compliance 
with AML/CFT matters including the verification and maintenance of relevant 
ownership information and other pertinent records, as well as exchange of 
information with relevant authorities. 
 
K. Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act, 2009  
 
4.17 The Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act confers power on the FIA to take action 
against persons and activities that may be related to terrorist financing, money 
laundering or the development of weapons of mass destruction (proliferation 
financing).  Such action comes primarily in the form of directions that may be issued 
by the FIA in relation to any and all persons or class of persons operating within the 
financial sector from a country where there is reasonable belief on the part of the FIA 
that activities carried out in the country, or by the government or any other person 
resident or incorporated in the country, pose a significant risk of terrorist financing, 
money laundering or the development or financing of weapons of mass destruction, 
and as such pose a risk to the interests of the Virgin Islands or the United Kingdom.  
Information gathered by the FIA in the exercise of its duties in carrying out the 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 15 of 26 
 
provisions of this Act may be the subject of information exchange providing such 
requests for information are made in accordance with relevant legislative provisions. 
 
L. Chemical Weapons (Overseas Territories) Order, 2005  
 
4.18 The Chemical Weapons (Overseas Territories) Order prohibits the use, development 
or production, possession or transfer of a chemical weapon or any military preparation 
relating to the intended use of a chemical weapon. Requests in relation to these 
matters are transmitted through the Governor as the relevant central authority. 
 
M. Chemical Weapons (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order, 2018 
 
4.19 This Order gives effect to the sanctions regime created by the EU in Council Decision 
(CFSP) 2018/1544 concerning restrictive measures against the proliferation and use of 
chemical weapons, and in Council Regulation (EU) 2018/1542 concerning restrictive 
measures against the proliferation and use of chemical weapons.  
 
4.20 The sanctions imposed include an asset-freeze on persons designated by the Council 
of the European Union as persons who are responsible for, involved in or promote the 
proliferation and use of chemical weapons, as well as persons associated with such 
persons. The Order makes provision for the Governor to license certain activities in 
line with exemptions and derogations under the sanctions regime. 
Committees and Other Co-ordinating Bodies 
4.21 The Territory’s AML/CFT framework also includes several co-ordinating bodies 
whose mandates vary, but which all play an important role in the Territory’s 
AML/CFT architecture.   
 
4.22 The structure of these bodies is outlined below. 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 16 of 26 
 
 
 
4.23 NAMLCC serves as the Territory’s national coordinating body on AML/CFT issues in 
accordance with Recommendation 2 of the FATF recommendations, in addition to 
providing policy guidance on all AML/CFT issues relating to or affecting the 
Territory.  It is responsible for driving the national AML/CFT architecture by 
developing and coordinating strategies to ensure that the Virgin Islands responds to 
money laundering and terrorist financing threats and other issues in an effective 
manner and ensuring compliance with all relevant standards.  
 
4.24 CCA’s role is to facilitate coordination between the Territory’s CAs relative to the 
execution of domestic and international cooperation matters and other relevant 
AML/CFT issues relating to or affecting the Territory.   
 
4.25 The CLEA was established to ensure greater coordination and collaboration in the 
fight against ML, TF and other organised crime through intelligence sharing, the joint 
pursuit and apprehension of criminals, and the disruption of criminal activity.   
 
4.26 JALTFAC is a statutory body established under the PCCA and has responsibility for 
advising the Commission on “initiatives for the prevention and detection of money 
laundering and terrorist financing”.4  The Commission is required to encourage 
dialogue with the private sector with a view to establishing a broad-based 
understanding and awareness of issues concerning ML, TF and PF as well as 
promoting the exchange of information on ML/TF/PF matters.5    
 
                                                          
4 See section 27A (1) of the PCCA. 
5 Section 51 of the AMLTFCOP 
National AML/CFT 
Coordinating Council 
(NAML/CFTCC)
JALTFAC
Inter-Governmental 
Committee (IGC)
Council of Competent 
Authorities (CCA)
Committee for Law 
Enforcement Authorities 
(CLEA)
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 17 of 26 
 
4.27 The IGC is established pursuant to the powers granted to the FSC and FIA under the 
AMLTFCOP6 and serves as a mechanism for “creating, enhancing and promoting 
public awareness of issues relating to money laundering and terrorist financing” and 
fostering cooperation between key public bodies involved in the fight against, or that 
have some nexus to, ML/TF activities, through a system of dialogue and the sharing 
of information amongst its members.  This system of dialogue includes the promotion 
of cooperation and information exchange between agencies in order to detect and 
prevent ML/TF; the rendering of necessary assistance to each other in respect of each 
other’s law enforcement or regulatory functions; and the promotion of cooperation 
with foreign regulatory, administrative and law enforcement officials in relation to 
any ML or TF matter.7 
 
5. The Commission’s Role in the National Framework 
 
5.1 The Commission is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Territory's 
AML/CFT systems and controls through supervision and inspection of regulated 
financial institutions in accordance with the Anti-Money Laundering Regulations, 
2008 and the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, 2008.  
This responsibility includes the monitoring of licensees for compliance with 
identification and verification procedures for new and continuing business 
relationships, record keeping requirements, third party relationships and the reliance 
thereon including testing of such relationships, reporting of suspicious activities, 
internal control system requirements, identification and handling of PEPs and other 
high risk individuals.  The Commission also has a responsibility to provide guidance 
and perform outreach to its licensees to aid them in understanding their obligations 
and ensuring the highest level of compliance with AML/CFT requirements.  
 
5.2 In addition, the Commission’s international co-operation obligations also requires it 
to engage in a wide array of exchange of information and cross-border international 
cooperation.  This is achieved primarily through its association with various regional 
and international standards setting bodies such as IOSCO, IAIS, GIFCS, ASBA and 
CGBS.  The Commission is also a signatory to various MoUs and MMoUs 
established between the Commission and other local and international partners 
for the exchange of information and provision of assistance on AML/CFT and 
other regulatory related issues. 
                                                          
6 See section 50 (1) of the AMLTFCOP. 
7 Section 50 (2) of the AMLTFCOP 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 18 of 26 
 
 
5.3 The Commission also serves as liaison to Government on AML/CFT matters and 
is a member of JALTFAC, IGC, CCA and NAMLCC.   
 
6. Identified AML/CFT/PF Threats and Vulnerabilities 
6.1 A threat is something harmful which, while it may not definitely happen, could 
happen if relevant action is not taken.  ML/TF/PF threats can come directly from 
people (natural and legal), terrorists and their facilitators and criminals generally. Or 
they can be indirect where systems require improvement to detect, mitigate, combat 
and curtail harmful activity.   
6.2 The NRA Report has identified primary threats as having a high impact on the 
stability of the AML/CFT regime and the reputation of the Territory if they were to 
occur.  Secondary threats have been identified as having a lower probability of 
occurring but could impact the reputation of the Territory and the stability of the 
AML/CFT regime if they were to occur.  
Threats 
6.3 Based on analysis of the information collected during the NRA exercise the primary 
threats to the functioning of the Commission are: 
a) Inadequate and inappropriate supervisory and enforcement frameworks for FIs (and 
DNFBPs) which leads to abuse of these systems by criminals; 
b) Negligent and complicit TCSPs whose actions may result in the facilitation of 
ML/TF; 
c) Misuse of financial services products such as legal persons, legal arrangements and 
money services by criminals to facilitate fraud, corruption and other financial 
crimes and to launder money and finance terrorism; 
d) Failures by financial institutions (and DNFBPs) in the maintenance of BO 
information, record keeping and reliance on third parties that could allow for 
ML/TF to go undetected; and 
e) Criminals’ ability: 
i. 
to launder money and finance terrorism where international cooperation is 
not effective; 
ii. 
to retain the proceeds of crime through breaches of sanctions; 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 19 of 26 
 
iii. 
to exploit the vulnerabilities in the MSB sector, being a highly cash intensive 
business with cross-border reach, for the purpose of laundering money or 
financing terrorism. 
Vulnerabilities 
6.4 The concept of vulnerabilities is closely linked to that of a threat, and comprises 
those things that can be exploited by the threat, or that may support or facilitate 
the threat activities. The vulnerabilities are effectively those factors that 
represent weaknesses in the Commission’s AML/CFT system. 
 
6.5 The vulnerabilities identified in the NRA in relation to the Commission are: 
 
a) inadequate technological resources available to carry out activities 
associated with record keeping and generation of statistics; 
b) no follow up mechanism in place to assist with gathering feedback from 
requesting CAs that will help determine the usefulness of information 
provided to them and enable appropriate reforms to be carried out where 
necessary; 
c) excessive time to respond to requests for information from foreign CAs 
could mean that ML/TF involving a BVI business company may go 
undetected, or prosecutions/investigations being carried out by foreign 
authorities may be hindered; 
d) inadequate resources dedicated to compliance inspection and the 
enforcement of FSC legislation; 
e) failure of adequate supervision, including absence of appropriate and 
adequate supervisory framework; 
f) lack of trained investigative staff in the Enforcement Unit; and 
g) lack of understanding of the risk posed by licensees through a determination 
of their level of non-compliance due to limited inspections. 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 20 of 26 
 
7. Identified ML, TF and PF Risks Levels 
 
7.1 The risks identified are a function of the threats to the Territory’s AML/CFT 
regime, and the vulnerabilities of the Commission listed above that were 
identified during the conduct of the NRA.  
 
7.2 The primary risks to the Commission itself have been identified as the inability 
to effectively supervise its licensees and take appropriate enforcement action 
where necessary, along with difficulties in fulfilling its domestic and 
international co-operation obligations.  These risks if left unaddressed would 
have a knock on effect on the Territory’s financial services sector. 
 
7.3 Based on the findings of the NRA the ML risk of the main financial services 
sectors was identified as follows: 
Sector 
Risk Rating 
Banking 
Low 
Insolvency 
Low 
Insurance 
Medium 
Investment Business 
Medium 
Trust and Corporate Services 
Medium 
Money Services 
High 
Designated Non-financial Businesses and Professions 
Medium 
 
 
7.4 The Commission recognises the Territory’s standing in the global community as an 
IFC and a leader in company formation business, and the high risks inherent in such 
business.  As such, the Commission understands the need to ensure compliance with 
international standards relative to the regulation and supervision of legal persons8 
such as BVIBCs and partnerships, and legal arrangements9 including express trusts, 
                                                          
1. 
8 Legal persons are defined by the FATF as “any entities other than natural persons that can establish a 
permanent customer relationship with a financial institution or otherwise own property”. 
2. 
9 Legal arrangements are defined by the FATF as “express trusts or other similar legal arrangements”. 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 21 of 26 
 
particularly with respect to the maintenance and timely production of BO 
information and the misuse of legal arrangements for ML/TF and PF.  This policy has, 
therefore, also taken these specific risks into account in an effort to minimise their 
impact. 
 
7.5 The Commission also recognises that while the risk of TF in the Territory has been 
assessed as being relatively remote and low, the size and nature of the financial 
services industry in the Territory does provide some risk of it being used to finance 
terrorists or terrorist activities.  The policy has, therefore taken this into account.  
 
7.6 As with TF, the risk of PF is considered to be low and relatively remote. However, 
due to the nature of the financial services industry in the Territory, it is recognised 
that some risk, although remote, may exist in relation to the misuse of corporate 
entities in the financing of proliferation of WMDs.  
 
7.7 The consequences of unchecked ML/TF/PF activity may be short or long term and 
may have limited or general effect on the Territory’s reputation, national or 
international interests, business environment, attractiveness of its financial services 
industry, its ability to co-operate domestically and internationally, and on trade 
relations (including correspondent banking relationships).   
 
7.8 As the Territory’s gatekeeper to financial services, the Commission understands that 
if the identified risks to the Commission are left unchecked, they would have a 
deleterious effect on the work and effectiveness of the Commission, the consequence 
of which would be a weakening of the Territory’s ability to comply with its AML/CTF 
obligations.   
 
7.9 To minimise the potential of any such negative impact, the Commission developed an 
action plan to chart the way forward in addressing these threats and vulnerabilities 
based on the recommendations put forward in the NRA Report relative to its work 
and for the various FI sectors.  Progress made has allowed for a more positive impact 
on the Commission’s level of effectiveness and ability to mitigate its existing risks.  
These actions have, therefore, also been taken into account in the development of this 
policy. 
 
7.10 Since the conclusion of the NRA there have been various developments in 
international AML/CFT standards, particularly in the form of revisions to the FATF’s 
Recommendations and Methodology.  Additionally there has been increased focus on 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 22 of 26 
 
matters of taxation, corruption, transparency of legal entities and arrangements with 
respect to beneficial ownership, and sanctions busting to name a few.  These issues, 
in so far as they affect the work of the Commission and the proper conduct of its 
licensees, have also been taken into account in the development of this policy.       
 
8. The Commission’s AML/CFT Objectives 
 
8.1 The Commission’s AML/CFT policy provides a framework for its  AML/CFT strategy, 
which is designed to meet the Commission’s objectives of mitigating its risks and 
complying with all applicable international standards and national requirements 
under the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 and other ancillary legislation that 
form part of the Territory’s AML/CFT framework.  This Policy is geared towards 
preventing money laundering and any activity that facilitates money laundering or 
the funding of terrorist or criminal activities, and promoting domestic and 
international co-operation. 
 
8.2 To achieve its objectives and demonstrate the effectiveness of its AML/CFT 
supervision the Commission will focus on the follow key areas: 
 
1) Supervision 
2) Enforcement 
3) Promotion of Cooperation 
4) Stakeholder Awareness and Outreach 
 
8.3 Supervision will be achieved by: 
• 
enhancing the current risk-based approach to the assessment and management of 
the Territory’s money laundering and terrorist financing risks within the 
Financial Services Sector; 
• 
enhancing  risk-based systems and procedures used for the monitoring of on-going 
licensee activity  to prevent criminals and their associates from abusing the 
financial services sector; 
• 
conducting regular risk assessments of licensees to determine appropriate intervals 
for supervisory contact; 
• 
periodically reviewing and updating AML legislation and guidelines to ensure 
compliance with international requirements; 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 23 of 26 
 
• 
strengthening capacity to achieve a greater degree of effectiveness in the 
regulation and supervision of licensees by developing employees’ analytical, 
investigative and supervisory skills; and 
• 
reviewing and addressing all outstanding deficiencies identified in the Territory’s 
National Risk Assessment relative to the Commission’s regulatory functions and 
responsibilities and any other actions identified as a consequence thereof. 
 
8.4 Enforcement will be achieved by: 
• 
taking effective and appropriate enforcement actions on all AML/CFT breaches to 
ensure compliance with regulatory standards; and 
• 
ensuring necessary steps are taken by licensees to prevent breaches of compliance 
with United Nations and other relevant sanctions regimes, and by identifying and 
penalising regulated entities found to be transacting with individuals, companies 
and countries that are on prescribed sanctions lists. 
• 
strengthening capacity to achieve a greater degree of effectiveness in the 
identification and enforcement of Ml/TF/PF breaches. 
 
8.5 Promotion of Cooperation will be achieved by: 
• 
promoting domestic and international co-operation through enhanced 
relationships with relevant domestic, regional and international authorities; and 
• 
ensuring proper and timely cooperation on intelligence matters with local and 
foreign competent authorities, including establishing appropriate procedures for 
sharing intelligence where available and ensuring quality of information 
provided.  
 
8.6 Stakeholder Awareness and Outreach will be achieved by: 
• 
facilitating ongoing dialogue with industry stakeholders, professional associations 
and the general public to raise awareness of ML/TF/PF. 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 24 of 26 
 
9. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation  
Implementation  
9.1 The Board of Commissioners is responsible for the approval of the Commission’s 
AML/CFT Policy and the AML strategy emanating from the development of this 
policy.  The Commission’s senior management is responsible for implementation.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation  
 
9.2 Monitoring is the act of observing processes and activities to ensure they are executed 
properly and fairly.  In the context of this Policy, the Commission, through its 
dedicated Units and Divisions, will monitor its processes and activities to ensure that 
they align with, support and promote the relevant key initiatives.  Progress on such 
activities will be reported to Management by the Deputy Director AML/CFT and the 
assigned Director as Head of the Anti-money Laundering Unit.  
 
9.3 As it relates to evaluation, this Policy has been designed to ensure compliance with 
all applicable international standards and domestic AML/CFT legislation and will be 
reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to account for changes that may arise in 
either domestic or international requirements.  The Head of the Anti-money 
Laundering Unit will be responsible for reviewing the Policy and recommending any 
modifications that may be deemed necessary to ensure ongoing compliance with all 
relevant standards.  
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 25 of 26 
 
List of Acronyms 
 
AML  
- 
Anti-money Laundering 
ASBA  
- 
Association of Supervisors of Banks of the Americas 
BO 
 
- 
Beneficial Ownership 
BVI 
 
- 
British Virgin Islands  
CA 
 
- 
Competent Authority 
CCA  
- 
Council of Competent Authorities 
CDD  
- 
Customer Due Diligence 
CFATF 
- 
Caribbean Financial Action Task Force 
CFT 
 
- 
Countering the Financing of Terrorism 
CGBS   
- 
Caribbean Group of Banking Supervisors 
CLEA  
- 
Committee of Law Enforcement Agencies 
DNFBP 
- 
Designated Non-financial Businesses and Professions 
DTOA  
- 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act, 1992 
EU 
 
- 
European Union 
FI 
 
- 
Financial Institutions 
FIA 
 
- 
Financial Investigation Agency 
GIFCS  
- 
Group of International Finance Centre Supervisors 
IAIS   
- 
International Association of Insurance Supervisors 
IFC 
 
- 
International Finance Centre 
IGC   
- 
Inter-governmental Committee on AML/CFT Matters  
IOSCO 
- 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions  
JALTFAC  
- 
Joint Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory 
Committee 
ML 
 
- 
Money Laundering 
MLRO  
- 
Money Laundering Reporting Officer 
MMoU 
- 
Multi-lateral Memorandum of Understanding 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Policy    |   Version:  1.0    |  Page 26 of 26 
 
List of Acronyms 
 
MoU  
- 
Memorandum of Understanding 
MSB  
- 
Money Services Business 
NAMLCC 
- 
National AML/CFT Co-ordinating Council 
NRA  
- 
National Risk Assessment 
PEP 
 
- 
Politically Exposed Person 
PF 
 
- 
Proliferation Financing 
RA 
 
- 
Registered Agent 
RBA  
- 
Risk Based Approach 
TCSP  
- 
Trust and Corporate Services Provider 
TF 
 
- 
Terrorist Financing 
UNSCR 
- 
United Nations Security Council Resolution 
WMD  
- 
Weapons of Mass Destruction 
 
