 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
British Virgin Islands 
Financial Services Commission 
AML/CFT STRATEGY 
2020-2022 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference: AML-020 
Publication Date:  19th March, 2020 
Version: 1.0 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 2 of 20 
 
 
 
 
 
Document title 
 
AML/CFT STRATEGY 2020-2022 
BVI Financial Services Commission  
 
 
Approving body 
Date of approval 
 
Board of Commissioners  
BVI Financial Services Commission  
 
 
 
25th February, 2020 
Related documents 
Version 
Reference 
 
AML/CFT POLICY 
 
 
 
1.0 
 
AML-020 
Effective date 
 
25th February, 2020 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 3 of 20 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Introduction ………………………………………………………………….……………. 3 
 
The Commission’s AML/CFT Strategy …………………………………….……………… 5 
 
 
Strategic Area 1: Supervision ………………………….……………………….….. 5 
Strategic Area 2: Enforcement …………………………………………….……… 10 
Strategic Area 3: Promotion of Cooperation …………………………….……….. 13 
Strategic Area 4: Stakeholder Awareness and Outreach ……………………….... 15 
 
Implementation ………………………………………………………………………….… 17 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation ……………………………………………………………….. 17 
 
Acronyms ………………………………………………………………………………….. 18 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 4 of 20 
 
1. 
Introduction 
 
1.1 The Financial Services Commission’s (“the Commission”) AML/CFT1 Strategy is a 
three-year road map for the period 2020 to 2022, which will be used by the 
Commission to implement effective measures across the board to combat ML, TF and 
PF risks inherent in the financial services sector.  The ultimate goal of producing this 
Strategy is to provide a guide for both Commission staff and financial services industry 
participants, of actions required to be undertaken in order to uphold the Commission 
as an effective regulator, and advance the Virgin Islands as a secure and well-regulated 
international financial centre, effective in mitigating against ML, TF and PF. 
 
1.2 The AML/CFT Strategy is informed by, and designed to address, the broad areas 
identified in the Commission’s AML/CFT Policy.  These two documents should be 
viewed in tandem as the Policy provides the framework around which the Strategy 
and its objectives are built. 
 
1.3 The AML/CFT Strategy sets out goals which embody, inter alia, the recommendations 
emanating from the Territory’s NRA as a result of the threats and vulnerabilities 
identified in relation to the Commission’s function as the Territory’s financial services 
regulator.  In addition, changes in international AML/CFT standards and other 
findings relative to the operations of the Commission’s supervisory, compliance and 
enforcement regimes have also been taken into account.  Regard has also been given 
to the broad national AML/CFT policy requirements communicated by the NAMLCC.    
 
1.4 These goals have been grouped into four key areas of supervision, enforcement, 
promotion of cooperation, and stakeholder awareness and outreach as identified in 
the AML/CFT Policy document.  Within each key area several objectives have also 
been identified.  This Strategy breaks down each objective further into specific actions 
which must be executed in order to achieve the identified objective and ultimately 
address each key area outlined in the AML/CFT Policy.  The development and 
implementation of the actions within each objective are the responsibility of specific 
Divisions/Units/Committees within the Commission.  In each instance the most 
appropriately equipped person has been assigned to lead the development and 
implementation of each of the relevant risk mitigation strategies identified.  
 
1.5 This Strategy is a dynamic document reflecting the Commission’s efforts to combat 
ML, TF and PF risks and the progress in those endeavours, and will be reviewed 
periodically to determine whether any amendments may be needed to action items 
in order to properly deliver on each objective.  Progress on the implementation of 
these actions will be monitored by the Commission’s Anti-Money Laundering Unit 
with ultimate reporting to the Board of Commissioners.  
 
                                                          
1 For the purposes of this strategy document any reference to AML/CFT also includes PF 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 5 of 20 
 
1.6 It is expected that the implementation of both the AML/CFT Policy and this 2020-
2022 AML/CFT Strategy will improve the Commission’s AML/CFT regime and ensure 
it meets FATF standards, while aiding in the further enhancement of the Territory’s 
overall AML/CFT framework. 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 6 of 20 
 
2. The Commission’s AML/CFT Strategy 
 
The Commission’s AML/CFT strategy is geared towards the protection of the financial 
services industry, and advancement of the Virgin Islands as a secure and well-
regulated international finance centre, effective in mitigating against ML, TF and PF.  
The Strategy focuses on the execution of objectives that will improve the effectiveness 
of the four key areas of supervision, enforcement, cooperation and outreach. 
 
2.1 Strategic Area 1 – Supervision 
 
2.1.1 Central to the work of the Commission is the regulation and supervision of licensees 
across the six (6) sectors that make up the Virgin Islands’ financial services industry.  
The overall aim being to ensure compliance, evaluate risk and monitor the 
perimeter of regulated financial services activity in order to safeguard the public 
against any illegal and/or unauthorised financial services business and misuse 
thereof, and safeguard the economic interests of the Territory.  
 
2.1.2 To accomplish this the Commission is committed to the development and 
maintenance of a modern risk-based legal and regulatory framework consistent 
with international standards effective in preventing, detecting and responding to 
ML/TF and PF activities.   
 
2.1.3 Effective supervision is a critical factor in determining the efficacy of licensees in 
implementing their AML/CFT responsibilities. The Commission will, therefore, 
ensure that it continues to implement an effective risk-based supervisory approach 
incorporating both on-site and off-site supervision activity informed by assessments 
of risk factors within each sector.  Results of such assessments will help to determine 
the required level of on-site and off-site supervision. Such a risk-based approach 
will also facilitate a more efficient allocation of resources by directing greater 
amounts of resources to higher risk areas while ensuring that lower risk scenarios 
are appropriately addressed. 
 
Objective 1 – Enhance the current risk-based approach to the assessment and 
management of the Territory’s money laundering and terrorist 
financing risks within the Financial Services Sector. 
 
Actions: 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 7 of 20 
 
a) Risk assessments will be conducted to allow for an adequate 
appreciation at all times of ML/TF/PF risks within each sector, and 
for the efficient allocation of resources and appropriate design of 
ML/TF/PF risk mitigation measures.  
 
b) The established Risk Assessment Framework will continue to be 
monitored and assessed with a view to ensuring it provides for all 
licensees to be properly risk profiled and assessed. 
 
Objective 2 – Enhance risk-based systems and procedures used for the monitoring of 
on-going licensee activity to prevent criminals and their associates 
from abusing the financial services sector. 
 
 
 Actions: 
 
 
a) The Commission’s Risk Assessment Framework will be enhanced to 
include specific AML/CFT assessment criteria for determining overall 
risk levels of regulated entities, the effectiveness of which will be 
monitored, assessed and periodically reviewed to determine the 
appropriate levels of off-site and on-site monitoring. 
 
b) The system to monitor and assess the implementation of corrective 
actions and other conditions imposed on licensees will be enhanced 
to allow for an assessment of the impact of such controls on 
improving compliance with regulatory requirements.  
 
c) Specific guidelines will be introduced for each sector to assist 
licensees with implementation of AML/CFT requirements to ensure 
compliance therewith.  
 
 
Objective 3 – Conduct regular risk assessments of licensees to determine appropriate 
intervals for supervisory contact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actions: 
a) Frequency of on-site inspections at the sectoral level will be 
determined based on inherent sectoral risk and will include a 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 8 of 20 
 
combination of full, thematic and targeted examinations informed by 
individual entities’ risk profiles. 
 
b) Intensity of supervision will be based on risk factors to ensure 
resources are appropriately placed and efficiently utilised. 
 
c) Desk based monitoring at the Divisional level will be enhanced based 
on established risk profiles using a combination of tools, the results 
of which will feed into updated risk profiles. 
 
 
Objective 4 –  Periodically review and update AML/CFT guidelines and recommend 
amendments to legislation to ensure compliance with international 
requirements. 
 
Actions: 
a) Changes in international standards will be monitored through 
ongoing examination of developments from within the FATF as well 
as regulatory developments emanating from the EU, UK and US. 
 
b) Gap analyses will be conducted on a triennial basis to identify and 
address any divergences between existing AML/CFT legislation and 
current international standards.  
 
c) Relevant AML/CFT legislation will be examined in line with 
developments in international standards as such developments occur. 
 
d) Proposals for legislative reforms, including enhancements to 
international cooperation measures, will be submitted for Board 
approval and Cabinet consideration based on gaps identified during 
benchmarking exercises and other periodic reviews to ensure 
continued compliance with such standards.   
 
e) Based on developments in the international arena guidance will be 
developed to cover specific areas of concern or importance to the 
industry to ensure practitioners are au fait with regulatory 
requirements and best practice. 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 9 of 20 
 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 10 of 20 
 
Objective 5 –  Strengthen capacity to achieve a greater degree of effectiveness in the 
regulation and supervision of licensees by enhancing employees’ 
analytical, investigative and supervisory skills. 
 
 
Actions: 
 
a) Appropriate resources will be made available to ensure regulatory 
divisions/units are adequately resourced with competent officers to 
allow for the effective implementation of supervision and monitoring 
programs.  
 
b) Skills gap analyses will be conducted to ensure staff are properly 
placed and have the requisite skills to carry out their respective 
functions. 
 
c) Training programmes will be delivered for all staff including 
management involved in AML/CFT supervision.  
 
d) Relevant staff will be provided with training opportunities in 
investigative techniques and data analysis to ensure the Commission’s 
ability to monitor licensees’ behaviour and identify potential red flags 
and properly exploit data collected to assist in more effective 
supervision. 
 
 
Objective 6 –  Review and address all outstanding deficiencies identified in the 
Territory’s National Risk Assessment relative to the Commission’s 
regulatory functions and responsibilities and any other actions 
identified as a consequence thereof. 
 
 
 
Actions: 
 
a) Legislative and regulatory action will be taken to ensure proper 
maintenance of BO and CDD information by licensees in accordance 
with international standards through the review of existing 
legislation against international standards and risk-based compliance 
assessments. 
 
b) A review of the work being carried out on crisis resolution will be 
undertaken with an aim to streamline and enact the Commission’s 
Crisis Management manual to provide a framework for responding to 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 11 of 20 
 
varying levels of crisis situations that may affect the financial services 
industry. 
 
c) The internal audit function will be further developed to ensure 
proper adherence to internal policies and procedures, including 
service standards, in an effort to enhance the Commission’s 
governance structure and adherence to established standards. 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 12 of 20 
 
2.2 Strategic Area 2 – Enforcement 
 
2.2.1 The reputation and integrity of the Virgin Islands as a financial services centre 
hinges on the protection of the persons who are engaged in financial services 
business in or from within the Virgin Islands, as well as their clients and the wider 
public; a responsibility which is of the utmost importance to the Commission.  One 
of the pillars upon which an effective AML/CFT regime rests is a strong framework 
for investigating, pursuing and sanctioning cases of ML, TF and PF.  As such, one of 
the Commission’s core functions relates to identifying breaches and taking 
corrective action when it is found that licensees are not conducting themselves in 
accordance with the law.  
 
2.2.2 As part of its International Standards on Combatting Money Laundering and the 
Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation – the FATF Recommendations, the FATF 
has called for countries to apply sanctions which are “effective, proportionate and 
dissuasive”. In the context of the Commission, the wide range of available 
enforcement actions empowers the Commission to act swiftly in addressing non-
compliance with regulatory measures.  The Commission recognises that without 
these attributes, sanctions will fail to achieve their deterrent purpose.  As such, it 
intends to ensure that all regulatory breaches are: 
• vigorously pursued by competent enforcement officers,   
• actions are taken that are proportionate to the severity of the contravention, 
and  
• penalties are sufficiently dissuasive to ensure that the likelihood of future 
breaches is reduced.  
 
2.2.3 The Commission also recognises that enforcement transcends national borders.  It 
is, therefore, committed to ensuring that the Territory’s financial services providers 
are aware of international sanctions requirements and adhere to the restrictive 
measures imposed on such listed persons and countries.  Further, that if such 
sanctions are disregarded, that appropriate action will be taken against offending 
entities. 
Objective 1 – Take effective and appropriate enforcement actions on all AML/CFT 
breaches to ensure compliance with regulatory standards.  
 
Actions: 
 
a) Effective enforcement mechanisms will be employed to ensure 
breaches of non-compliance with AML/CFT requirements are 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 13 of 20 
 
identified, and that resulting penalties are applied that are effective, 
proportionate and dissuasive.   
 
b) Existing enforcement powers will be reviewed to establish their level 
of effectiveness in deterring misconduct and amendments made 
where necessary to promote enhanced compliance. 
 
 
Objective 2 – Ensure licensees are aware of necessary steps to prevent breaches of 
compliance with United Nations and other relevant sanctions regimes, 
and to identify and penalise regulated entities found to be transacting 
with individuals, companies and countries that are on prescribed 
sanctions lists. 
 
Actions: 
 
a) News and other media will be actively monitored for instances of 
sanctions busting involving BVI Business companies to ensure proper 
enforcement action is taken against offending parties. 
 
b) Financial sanctions notices will be published within 24 hours of 
dissemination from the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation 
(OFSI) and notifications will be sent to industry practitioners 
immediately thereafter informing of publication. 
 
c) UK Overseas Territories Sanctions Orders will be published within 
24 hours of receipt from the Governor’s Office and notifications will 
be sent to industry practitioners immediately thereafter informing of 
publication. 
 
 
Objective 3 -  Strengthen capacity to achieve a greater degree of effectiveness in the 
identification and enforcement of ML/TF/PF breaches. 
 
 
Actions: 
 
a) Appropriate resources will be made available to ensure the 
Enforcement Division is adequately resourced with competent 
officers to allow for the effective implementation of enforcement 
programs.  
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 14 of 20 
 
b) Skills gap analyses will be conducted to ensure staff are appropriately 
placed and have the requisite skills to carry out their respective 
functions. 
 
c) Relevant staff will be provided with training opportunities in 
investigative techniques and data analysis to ensure the Commission’s 
ability to effectively identify and address non-compliant behaviour 
and properly exploit data collected, in order to assist in more effective 
enforcement of the AML/CFT regime. 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 15 of 20 
 
2.3 Strategic Area 3 – Promotion of Cooperation 
 
2.3.1 ML, TF and PF are not only domestic threats but are global problems which require 
cooperation at both the domestic and international levels to be effectively 
addressed.  
 
2.3.2 On the domestic front the Commission is dedicated to providing guidance and 
assistance to other competent authorities and law enforcement agencies on 
AML/CFT matters through active participation in relevant domestic advisory 
committees such as IGC, JALTAC, CCA and NAMLCC.  It is also committed to the 
proper exchange of information through both formal and information channels and 
the utilisation of existing MoUs with both domestic and international counterparts. 
 
2.3.3 Additionally, much of the jurisdiction’s financial services business is cross-border 
in nature; therefore, providing assistance to foreign regulators and other competent 
authorities investigating persons and/or entities connected to the Virgin Islands in 
relation to ML, TF or PF is of highest priority. 
 
2.3.4 Further, the ability to cooperate is dependent on an adequate legal framework for 
providing assistance and other mechanisms to enhance cooperation. The 
Commission recognises that the Territory’s legal framework must be continuously 
enhanced and is committed to assisting in this regard by reviewing and making 
recommendations for legislative reforms to ensure incorporation of FATF standards 
and international best practice.   
 
Objective 1 – Promote domestic and international co-operation through enhanced 
relationships with relevant domestic, regional and international 
authorities. 
 
Actions: 
 
a) The Commission will actively participate in all domestic advisory 
committees for which it is a member.  
b) Avenues for further cooperation with overseas regulatory authorities 
such as through the initiation and signing of memoranda of 
understanding will be pursued. 
 
c) Relationships with international organisations will be improved 
through active participation in working groups and other forums. 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 16 of 20 
 
 
d) Relationships with relevant domestic authorities will be fostered to 
promote the sharing of information and enhance cooperation 
mechanisms. 
 
e) A review of the Territory’s International Cooperation Handbook will 
be undertaken with a view to updating as necessary to ensure it aligns 
with current international requirements. 
 
 
Objective 2 – Ensure proper and timely cooperation on intelligence matters with 
local and foreign competent authorities, including establishing 
appropriate procedures for sharing intelligence where available and 
ensuring quality of information provided. 
 
Actions: 
 
a) Operational procedures will be continually reviewed and enhanced 
with a view to ensuring all requests are addressed in a timely manner. 
b) The system used to track receipt of cooperation requests will be 
enhanced to ensure domestic and international cooperation requests 
are responded to within approved timeframe. 
c) Feedback on usefulness of information received from domestic and 
international authorities will be provided to promote open channels 
of communication between agencies on quality of information being 
provided. 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 17 of 20 
 
 
2.4 Strategic Area 4 – Stakeholder Awareness and Outreach  
 
2.4.1 Engagement with industry stakeholders is an important element in the 
Commission’s strategy to combat ML, TF, and PF.  It is important for practitioners 
to be aware of the threats and risks that they may face in carrying out their activities, 
and the need to put mechanisms in place to prevent their services from being abused 
by those engaged in ML/TF.  Engagement with industry stakeholders to develop a 
more cohesive partnership on AML/CFT issues must, therefore, be sustained and 
the Commission must be willing to work with the industry to address identified 
gaps and vulnerabilities existing in the financial sector.  
 
2.4.2 The effective implementation of applicable policies and strategies for addressing 
ML, TF and PF risks is heavily dependent on partnerships between the Commission 
and the private sector. The aim of such collaboration is to raise awareness of 
AML/CFT issues and highlight the importance of each stakeholder in ensuring that 
the jurisdiction remains a premier place to conduct legitimate business while 
preventing those who seek to engage in ML, TF and PF from doing so.  
 
2.4.3 The Commission also recognises the need to put measures in place to ensure that 
the financial sector and the wider public is acquainted with the requirements of BVI 
law regarding AML/CFT and that they are advised of concerns about weaknesses in 
the AML/CFT systems of other countries.  Additionally, implementing measures to 
enhance general AML/CFT awareness will further deepen the Territory’s 
understanding of ML, TF and PF risks and aid in the development of a more 
educated public that is better equipped at identifying and avoiding activities that 
may expose them to such risks.  
 
Objective 1 – Facilitate ongoing dialogue with industry stakeholders, professional 
associations and the general public to raise awareness of ML/TF/PF. 
 
Actions: 
 
a) Programs for raising awareness of AML/CFT among private sector 
stakeholders will be enhanced to ensure that all industry stakeholders 
are aware of the jurisdiction’s international obligations and their role 
in fulfilling those obligations.  
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 18 of 20 
 
b) Regular meetings will be held with industry associations to conduct 
awareness programmes with an aim to increasing AML/CFT 
awareness and understanding regarding the requirements of the 
AML/CFT laws and other AML/CFT issues, including concerns about 
weaknesses in the AML/CFT systems of other countries they may 
engage in business with. 
 
c) Guidance on key issues or amendments to existing guidance relative 
to AML/CFT will be identified and issued to industry stakeholders. 
 
d) Areas where AML/CFT training is needed will be identified and 
training programmes facilitated with technical assistance from 
regional and international bodies where required. 
 
e) Print and online media will be utilised to raise awareness of 
ML/TF/PF by the general public and to ensure that stakeholders are 
kept up-to-date with AML/CFT issues. 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 19 of 20 
 
3. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation  
Implementation  
3.1 As with the Commission’s AML/CFT Policy, the Board of Commissioners is 
responsible for the approval of the Commission’s AML/CFT Strategy.  Responsibility 
for implementation of both the Policy and the Strategy falls to the Commission’s 
senior management.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation  
 
3.2 Responsibility for proper execution of each objective is that of the identified lead(s).  
Each lead will be responsible for monitoring the processes and activities associated 
with achieving the specified objectives.  However, this does not negate the 
responsibility of the other persons involved in this process from ensuring that the 
identified tasks within each objective are completed.  Overall progress on the status 
of implementation of each objective will be monitored by the Commission’s Anti-
Money Laundering Unit with ultimate reporting to the Board of Commissioners.   
 
3.3 As it relates to evaluation, this Strategy is a dynamic document reflecting the 
Commission’s efforts to combat identified ML, TF and PF risks and will be reviewed 
periodically to determine whether any amendments may be needed to action items 
in order to properly deliver on each objective and ensure ongoing compliance with 
all relevant standards.  
 
 
 
### 
 
 
 
 
BVI Financial Services Commission AML/CFT Strategy 2020-2022    |   Version:  1    |  Page 20 of 20 
 
ACRONYMS 
 
 
AML 
 
- 
Anti-money Laundering 
BO 
 
- 
Beneficial Ownership 
CCA 
 
- 
Council of Competent Authorities 
CDD 
 
- 
Customer Due Diligence 
CFT 
 
- 
Countering the Financing of Terrorism 
DMD 
 
- 
Deputy Managing Director 
EU 
 
- 
European Union 
FATF 
 
- 
Financial Action Task Force 
IGC 
 
- 
Inter-governmental Committee on AML/CFT Matters 
JALTFAC 
- 
Joint Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Advisory Committee 
 
MD/CEO 
- 
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer 
ML 
 
- 
Money Laundering 
NAMLCC 
- 
National Anti-money Laundering Coordinating Council 
PF 
 
- 
Proliferation Financing 
TF 
 
- 
Terrorist Financing 
UK 
 
- 
United Kingdom 
US 
 
- 
United States of America 
 
