Home / PublicaƟons / High-risk and other monitored jurisdicƟons
/ High-Risk JurisdicƟons subject to a Call for AcƟon – 21 February 2020
High-Risk JurisdicƟons
subject to a Call for
AcƟon – 21 February
2020
High-risk jurisdicƟons have signiﬁcant strategic deﬁciencies in their regimes to counter money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing,
and ﬁnancing of proliferaƟon. For all countries idenƟﬁed as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges all jurisdicƟons
to apply enhanced due diligence, and in the most serious cases, countries are called upon to apply counter-measures to
protect the internaƟonal ﬁnancial system from the ongoing money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, and proliferaƟon ﬁnancing
(ML/TF/PF) risks emanaƟng from the country. This list is oŌen externally referred to as the “black list”.  *  
DemocraƟc People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)
The FATF remains concerned by the DPRK’s failure to address the signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in its anƟ-money laundering and
combaƟng the ﬁnancing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regime and the serious threats they pose to the integrity of the
internaƟonal ﬁnancial system. The FATF urges the DPRK to immediately and meaningfully address its AML/CFT
deﬁciencies. Further, the FATF has serious concerns with the threat posed by the DPRK’s illicit acƟviƟes related to the
proliferaƟon of weapons of mass destrucƟon (WMDs) and its ﬁnancing.
The FATF reaﬃrms its 25 February 2011 call on its members and urges all jurisdicƟons to advise their ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons
to give special aƩenƟon to business relaƟonships and transacƟons with the DPRK, including DPRK companies, ﬁnancial
insƟtuƟons, and those acƟng on their behalf. In addiƟon to enhanced scruƟny, the FATF further calls on its members and
urges all jurisdicƟons to apply eﬀecƟve counter-measures, and targeted ﬁnancial sancƟons in accordance with applicable
United NaƟons Security Council ResoluƟons, to protect their ﬁnancial sectors from money laundering, ﬁnancing of
terrorism and WMD proliferaƟon ﬁnancing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanaƟng from the DPRK. JurisdicƟons should take
necessary measures to close exisƟng branches, subsidiaries and representaƟve oﬃces of DPRK banks within their
territories and terminate correspondent relaƟonships with DPRK banks, where required by relevant UNSC resoluƟons.
Iran
In June 2016, Iran commiƩed to address its strategic deﬁciencies. Iran’s acƟon plan expired in January 2018. In February
2020, the FATF noted Iran has not completed the acƟon plan.[1]
In October 2019, the FATF called upon its members and urged all jurisdicƟons to: require increased supervisory
examinaƟon for branches and subsidiaries of ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons based in Iran; introduce enhanced relevant reporƟng
mechanisms or systemaƟc reporƟng of ﬁnancial transacƟons; and require increased external audit requirements for
ﬁnancial groups with respect to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran.
Now, given Iran’s failure to enact the Palermo and Terrorist Financing ConvenƟons in line with the FATF Standards, the
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
1 of 2
FATF fully liŌs the suspension of counter-measures and calls on its members and urges all jurisdicƟons to apply eﬀecƟve
counter-measures, in line with RecommendaƟon 19.[2]
Iran will remain on the FATF statement on [High Risk JurisdicƟons Subject to a Call for AcƟon] unƟl the full AcƟon Plan has
been completed. If Iran raƟﬁes the Palermo and Terrorist Financing ConvenƟons, in line with the FATF standards, the FATF
will decide on next steps, including whether to suspend countermeasures. UnƟl Iran implements the measures required
to address the deﬁciencies idenƟﬁed with respect to countering terrorism-ﬁnancing in the AcƟon Plan, the FATF will
remain concerned with the terrorist ﬁnancing risk emanaƟng from Iran and the threat this poses to the internaƟonal
ﬁnancial system.
[1] In June 2016, the FATF welcomed Iran’s high-level poliƟcal commitment to address its strategic AML/CFT deﬁciencies,
and its decision to seek technical assistance in the implementaƟon of the AcƟon Plan. Since 2016, Iran established a cash
declaraƟon regime, enacted amendments to its Counter-Terrorist Financing Act and its AnƟ-Money Laundering Act, and
adopted an AML by-law.
In February 2020, the FATF noted that there are sƟll items not completed and Iran should fully address: (1) adequately
criminalizing terrorist ﬁnancing, including by removing the exempƟon for designated groups “aƩempƟng to end foreign
occupaƟon, colonialism and racism”; (2) idenƟfying and freezing terrorist assets in line with the relevant United NaƟons
Security Council resoluƟons; (3) ensuring an adequate and enforceable customer due diligence regime; (4) demonstraƟng
how authoriƟes are idenƟfying and sancƟoning unlicensed money/value transfer service providers; (5) raƟfying and
implemenƟng the Palermo and TF ConvenƟons and clarifying the capability to provide mutual legal assistance; and (6)
ensuring that ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons verify that wire transfers contain complete originator and beneﬁciary informaƟon.
[2] Countries should be able to apply appropriate countermeasures when called upon to do so by the FATF. Countries
should also be able to apply countermeasures independently of any call by the FATF to do so. Such countermeasures
should be eﬀecƟve and proporƟonate to the risks.
The InterpretaƟve Note to RecommendaƟon 19 speciﬁes examples of the countermeasures that could be undertaken by
countries. 
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
2 of 2
