Home / PublicaƟons / High-risk and other monitored jurisdicƟons
/ JurisdicƟons under Increased Monitoring – 30 June 2020
JurisdicƟons under
Increased Monitoring –
30 June 2020
JurisdicƟons under increased monitoring are acƟvely working with the FATF to address strategic deﬁciencies in their regimes to
counter money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, and proliferaƟon ﬁnancing. When the FATF places a jurisdicƟon under increased
monitoring, it means the country has commiƩed to resolve swiŌly the idenƟﬁed strategic deﬁciencies within agreed
Ɵmeframes and is subject to increased monitoring. This list is oŌen externally referred to as the ‘grey list’. 
The FATF and FATF-style regional bodies (FSRBs) conƟnue to work with the jurisdicƟons noted below and to report on the
progress made in addressing the idenƟﬁed strategic deﬁciencies. The FATF calls on these jurisdicƟons to complete their agreed
acƟon plans expediƟously and within the proposed Ɵmeframes. The FATF welcomes their commitment and will closely monitor
their progress. The FATF does not call for the applicaƟon of enhanced due diligence to be applied to these jurisdicƟons, but
encourages its members to take into account the informaƟon presented below in their risk analysis.
The FATF conƟnues to idenƟfy addiƟonal jurisdicƟons, on an on-going basis, that have strategic deﬁciencies in their regimes to
counter money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, and proliferaƟon ﬁnancing. A number of jurisdicƟons have not yet been
reviewed by the FATF and FSRBs.
On 28 April, the FATF decided on a general pause in the review process for the list of jurisdicƟons under increased monitoring,
FATF extends its assessment and follow-up deadlines in response to COVID-19 (28 April 2020)
The FATF granted jurisdicƟons an addiƟonal four months for deadlines, with the excepƟon of Mongolia and Iceland who
requested to conƟnue on their original schedule. As a result, the FATF reviewed and virtually met with only these jurisdicƟons
and the result of these discussions is noted below.
Iceland
In October 2019, Iceland made a high-level poliƟcal commitment to work with the FATF to strengthen the eﬀecƟveness of its
AML/CFT regime and address any related technical deﬁciencies. At its June 2020 Plenary, the FATF made the iniƟal
determinaƟon that Iceland has substanƟally completed its acƟon plan and warrants an on-site assessment to verify that the
implementaƟon of Iceland’s AML/CFT reforms has begun and is being sustained, and that the necessary poliƟcal commitment
remains in place to sustain implementaƟon in the future. Speciﬁcally, Iceland has made the following key reforms: (1) ensuring
the access to accurate basic and beneﬁcial ownership informaƟon for legal persons by competent authoriƟes in a Ɵmely
manner; (2) introducing an automated system for STR ﬁling and enhancing the FIU’s capacity in its strategic and operaƟonal
analysis; (3) ensuring implementaƟon of TFS requirements among FIs and DNFBPs through eﬀecƟve supervision; and (4)
enabling eﬀecƟve oversight and monitoring of NPOs with adequate resources and in line with the idenƟﬁed TF risks. The FATF
will conƟnue to monitor the COVID-19 situaƟon and conduct an on-site visit at the earliest possible date.
Mongolia
In October 2019, Mongolia made a high-level poliƟcal commitment to work with the FATF and APG to strengthen the
eﬀecƟveness of its AML/CFT regime and address any related technical deﬁciencies. At its June 2020 Plenary, the FATF made the
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
1 of 2
iniƟal determinaƟon that Mongolia has substanƟally completed its acƟon plan and warrants an on-site assessment to verify
that the implementaƟon of Mongolia’s AML/CFT reforms has begun and is being sustained, and that the necessary poliƟcal
commitment remains in place to sustain implementaƟon in the future. Speciﬁcally, Mongolia has made the following key
reforms: (1) improving sectoral ML/TF risk understanding by DNFBP supervisors, applying a risk-based approach to supervision
and applying proporƟonate and dissuasive sancƟons for breaches of AML/CFT obligaƟons; (2) demonstraƟng increased
invesƟgaƟons and prosecuƟons of diﬀerent types of ML acƟvity in line with idenƟﬁed risks; (3) demonstraƟng further seizure
and conﬁscaƟon of falsely/non-declared currency and applying eﬀecƟve, proporƟonate and dissuasive sancƟons; (4)
demonstraƟng cooperaƟon and coordinaƟon between authoriƟes to prevent sancƟons evasion; and (5) monitoring compliance
by FIs and DNFBPs with their PF-related TFS obligaƟons, including the applicaƟon of proporƟonate and dissuasive sancƟons.
The FATF will conƟnue to monitor the COVID-19 situaƟon and conduct an on-site visit at the earliest possible date.
The statement on JurisdicƟons under Increased Monitoring, adopted in February 2020 remains in eﬀect for the remaining
jurisdicƟons idenƟﬁed at that Ɵme:
Albania
The Bahamas
Barbados
Botswana
Cambodia
Ghana
Jamaica
MauriƟus
Myanmar
Nicaragua
Pakistan
Panama
Syria
Uganda
Yemen
Zimbabwe
Please refer to the statement issued in February 2020 for details concerning each of these jurisdicƟons. However, please be
advised that the statement may not necessarily reﬂect the most recent status in the jurisdicƟon’s AML/CFT regime.
JurisdicƟons under Increased Monitoring – 21 February 2020
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
2 of 2
