 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
STATUTORY INSTRUMENT 1999 NO. 49 
 
PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT ACT 
(No. 5 of 1997) 
 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct (Designated Countries  
and Territories) Order, 1999 
 
[ Gazetted 14th October, 1999] 
 
The Governor in Council, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 32 of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 (No. 5 of 
1997), makes the following Order: 
 
1. This Order may be cited as the Proceeds of Criminal 
Conduct (Designated Countries and Territories) Order, 1999. 
 
2. In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires, 
“the Act” means the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997; 
 
“designated country” means a country or territory designated under 
section 3 (1); 
 
“appropriate authority of a designated country” means  
 
(a) 
the authority specified opposite that country in 
Schedule 1; or 
 
(b) 
where no authority is so specified the authority 
appearing to the court to be the appropriate authority 
of that country for the purposes of sections 32 and 33 
of the Act, and of the other provisions of the Act as 
applied under section 3 (2); 
 
 
 
 
 
“Court” means the High Court; 
 
“court of a designated country” includes a court of any state or 
territory of a designated country; 
 
3. (1) The countries and territories specified in 
Schedule 1 
are designated for the purposes of sections 32 and 33 of the Act. 
 
(2) In relation to a designated country, the Act shall apply, 
subject to the modifications specified in Schedule 2, to external 
confiscation orders and to proceedings which have been or are to be 
instituted in the designated country and  
 
 
488 
 
 
 
Short title. 
 
 
 
 
Interpretation. 
 
Act No. 5 of 
1997 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Designation of,
and application 
of the Act to, 
countries and 
territories. 
Schedule 1 
Schedule 2 
 
 
 
 
 
may result in an external confiscation order being made there, and in 
relation to those orders and proceedings, the Act shall have effect as 
set out in Schedule 3. 
 
4. (1) For the purposes of sections 32 and 33 of the Act, and of 
the other provisions of the Act as applied under section 3 (2), 
 
 
(a) any order made or judgement given by a court of a 
designated country purporting to bear the seal of that court 
or to be signed by a person in his capacity as a judge, 
magistrate or officer of the court shall be deemed without 
further proof to have been duly sealed or, as the case may 
be, to have been signed by that person; and 
  
(b) a document, duly authenticated, which purports to be a copy 
of any order made or judgement given by a court of a 
designated country shall be deemed without further proof to 
be a true copy. 
 
(2) A document which purports to be a copy of any order 
made or judgement given by a court of a designated country is duly 
authenticated for the purpose of subsection (1) (b) if it purports to be 
certified by a person in his capacity as a judge, magistrate or officer 
of the court in question or by or on behalf of the appropriate 
authority of the designated country. 
 
5. (1) 
For the purposes of sections 32 and 33 of the Act, 
and of the other provisions of the Act as applied under section 3 (2), 
a certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the 
appropriate authority of a designated country stating 
 
(a) that proceedings have been instituted and have not been 
concluded, or that proceedings are to be instituted there, 
 
(b) in a case to which section 2 (5) (f) (ii) of the Act, as 
modified by Schedule 2, applies, that the defendant has 
been notified as specified in that section, 
 
(c) that an external confiscation order is in force and is not 
subject to appeal, 
 
(d) that all or a certain amount of the sum payable under an 
external confiscation order remains unpaid in the designated 
country, or that other property recoverable under an 
external confiscation order remains unrecovered there,  
 
 
 
489 
 
 
Schedule 3 
 
 
Proof of order and 
judgement of a 
court of a 
designated 
country. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence in 
relation to 
proceedings and 
orders in a 
designated 
country. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) that any person has been notified of any proceedings in 
accordance with the law of the designated country, or  
 
(f) that an order (however described) made by a court of the 
designated country has the purpose of recovering payments 
or other reward received in connection with criminal 
conduct or their value, 
 
shall, in any proceedings in the Court, be admissible as evidence of 
the facts so stated. 
 
 
(2) In such proceedings a statement contained in a 
document, duly authenticated, which purports to have been received 
in evidence or to be a copy of a document so received, or to set out 
or summarise evidence given in proceedings in a court in a 
designated country, shall be admissible as evidence of the facts 
stated therein. 
 
(3) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of 
subsection (2) if it purports to be certified by a person in his capacity 
as a judge, magistrate or officer of the court in a designated country, 
or by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of the designated 
country, to have been received in evidence or to be a copy of a 
document so received, or, as the case may be, to be the original 
document containing or summarising the evidence or a true copy of 
that document. 
 
(4) Nothing in this section shall prejudice the admission of 
any evidence, whether contained in a document or otherwise, which 
is admissible apart from this section. 
 
6. Where in relation to a designated country no authority is 
specified in Schedule 1, a certificate made by the Governor to the 
effect that the authority specified therein is the appropriate authority 
for the purpose of sections 32 and 33 of the Act, and of the other 
provisions of the Act as applied by section 3 (2), shall be sufficient 
evidence of that fact. 
 
7. A request for assistance sent to the Governor by the 
appropriate authority of a designated country shall, unless the 
contrary is shown, be deemed to constitute the designated authority 
of the government of that country for the Attorney General to act on 
its behalf in proceedings in the Court under section 33 of the Act or 
any other provision of the Act as applied by section 3 (2). 
 
Certificate as 
to appropriate 
authority of a 
designated 
country. 
Schedule 1 
 
 
Representation 
of government 
of a designated 
country. 
 
 
 
 
 
490 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
(1) 
The amount payable under the confiscation order 
shall be treated as reduced by the value of the property so recovered, 
where 
 
(a) a confiscation order has been made under section 6 of the 
Act; 
 
(b) a request as been sent by the Governor to the appropriate 
authority of a designated country for assistance in 
enforcing that order; and 
 
(c) in execution of that request property is recovered in that 
country. 
 
(2) 
For the purpose of this section, and without 
prejudice to the admissibility of any evidence which may be 
admissible apart from this subsection, a certificate purporting to be 
issued by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of a designated 
country stating that property has been recovered there in execution of 
a request by the Governor stating the value of the property so 
recovered and the date on which it was recovered shall, in any 
proceedings in a court in the Territory, be admissible as evidence of 
the facts so stated. 
 
9. 
(1) Where the value of property recovered as described in 
section 8(1) is expressed in a currency other than the currency of the 
United States of America, the extent to which the amount payable 
under the confiscation order is to be reduced under section 8 (1) shall 
be calculated on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date 
on which the property was recovered in the designated country 
concerned. 
 
(2) 
Where an amount of money payable or remaining to 
be paid under an external confiscation order registered in the Court 
under section 33 of the Act is expressed in a currency other than the 
currency of the United States of America for the purpose of an action 
taken in relation to that order under the Act as applied under section 
3 (2), the amount shall be converted into the currency of the United 
States of America on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the 
date of registration of the order. 
Satisfaction of
confiscation 
order 
in 
a
designated 
country. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Currency 
conversion
 
 
 
(3) 
For the purposes of this section, a written certificate 
purporting to be signed by a person acting in his capacity as an 
officer of a bank in the Territory and stating the exchange rate 
prevailing on a specified date shall be admissible as evidence of the 
facts so stated. 
 
 
 
 
491 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
[ Section 3 (1) ] 
 
Designated Countries 
 
Designated Country 
Appropriate Authority 
Belgium 
Cyprus 
Denmark 
Germany 
Iceland 
Italy 
Netherlands 
Norway 
Portugal 
Spain 
Sweden 
United Kingdom 
 
 
 
 
 
The Ministry of Justice 
Afdeling International Rechtshulp 
 
 
The Ministerio de Justicia, Madrid 
 
The Home Office 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
[Section 3 (2)] 
 
Modifications of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 
 
 
1. 
Section 1 shall be omitted. 
 
2. 
In section 2, 
 
(a)  in subsection (1) 
 
 
(i) for the words “confiscation order” there shall be 
substituted the words “external confiscation order”; 
 
 
 
(ii) in the definition of “defendant”, the words “for an 
offence to which this Act applies,” shall be deleted and 
the words “for the recovery of proceeds of criminal 
conduct,” substituted therefor; 
 
(iii) the definition of “drug trafficking offence” shall be 
deleted. 
 
(b) subsection (3) shall be deleted and the following 
subsection substituted therefor: 
 
“(3)  This Act applies to all property whether received 
before or after the commencement of this Act, and whether 
received in connection with 
 
 
492 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 criminal conduct carried on by the recipient or some other 
person.”; 
 
(c) for subsection (5) (f), there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
“(f)  proceedings are instituted in a designated country 
when 
 
(i) 
under the law of the designated country 
concerned any step specified in relation to that 
country in Column 2 of the Appendix to this 
Act  has been taken there in respect of alleged 
criminal conduct by the defendant, 
 
(ii) where no steps have been specified in relation 
thereto as mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or the 
specified procedures have since changed, the 
defendant has been notified in writing in 
accordance with the laws of the designated 
country that the competent authorities of that 
country have begun proceedings against him in 
respect of an offence; or 
 
(iii) an application has been made to a court in a 
designated country for an external confiscation 
order, and where the application of this 
subsection would result in there being more 
than one time for the institution of proceedings, 
they shall be taken to have been instituted at the 
earliest of those times.”; 
 
(d) subsection (5) (h) shall be deleted; 
 
 
(e) in subsection (6) the words beginning from “the 
 
 
defendant” to the end of the sentence shall be deleted and 
the words “all the property liable to be recovered has been 
recovered and all the money due to be paid has been 
paid.”. 
 
3. 
In section 3, 
 
(a) for subsection (1) there shall be substituted the following 
subsection: 
 
“(1) 
In this Act, “realizable property” means, 
subject to subsection (2), 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) in relation to an external confiscation order 
made in respect of specified property, the 
property which is specified in the order; and 
 
(b) in any other case, 
 
(i) 
any property held by the defendant; and 
 
(ii) any property held by a person to whom the 
defendant has directly or indirectly made a 
gift caught by this Act.”. 
 
(b) subsection (2) shall be deleted and the following 
subsection substituted therefor: 
 
“(2) 
Property is not realisable property if an 
order under section 29 of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) 
Act is in force in relation to that property.”. 
 
(c) subsections (3) and (4) shall be omitted. 
 
4. 
In section 4 (1) for the words “this Act” there shall be 
substituted the words “Proceeds of Criminal Conduct (Designated 
Countries and Territories) Order, 1999". 
 
5. 
For section 6 there shall be substituted the following 
section: 
 
6. (1) An order made by a court in a 
“External 
confiscati
d
493
 
 
designated 
country 
for 
the 
purpose 
of 
recovering payments or other rewards received 
in connection with criminal conduct or their 
value is referred to in this Act as an “external 
confiscation order. 
 
(2) In subsection (1) the reference to 
an order includes any order, decree, 
direction or judgement, or any part thereof, 
however described. 
 
(3) A person against whom an 
external confiscation order had been made, 
or a person against whom proceedings 
which may result in an external confiscation 
order being made have been, or are to be, 
instituted in a court in a designated country, 
is referred to in this Act as “the defendant”. 
 
6. 
Sections 7 to 14 shall be omitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  For section 15 there shall be substituted the following 
section:   
 
15. (1) If any sum required to be paid 
by a person under an external confiscation order, 
whether forthwith or within a specified period, is 
not paid, that person is liable to pay interest on 
the sum for the period for which it remains 
unpaid, provided that the law of the designated 
country from which the order emanated requires 
the payment of such interest and it is specified in 
the order. 
 
 (2) The amount of the interest 
referred to in subsection (1) shall be treated as part 
of the amount to be recovered from the person liable 
to pay interest under the external confiscation order 
and the rate of interest shall be that specified in the 
order. 
 
(3) (Omitted). 
 
8. 
In section 16, 
 
(a) for subsection 1 (a) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
“Interest on 
sums unpaid 
under a 
confiscation 
order. 
494
 
 
 
“(a)  proceedings have been instituted against the 
defendant in a designated country;”; 
 
(b) subsection 1 (b) shall be omitted and the following 
substituted therefor: 
 
“(b) the proceedings have not been concluded;”; 
 
(c) for subsection (1) (c) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
“(c) either an external confiscation order has been made 
in the proceedings or it appears to the High Court 
that there are reasonable grounds for believing that 
an external confiscation order may be made in 
them.”; 
 
(d) for subsection (2) there shall be substituted the following 
subsection: 
 
“(2)  The powers conferred on the High Court by 
sections 17 and 18 are also exercisable where it  
 
 
 
 
495 
 
 
 
 
appears to the Court that proceedings are to be instituted 
against the defendant in a designated country and that 
there are reasonable grounds for believing that an external 
confiscation order may be made in them.”; 
 
(e) subsection (3) shall be omitted; and  
 
(f) subsection (4) shall be omitted and the following 
subsection substituted therefor: 
 
“(4) Where, for the purposes of sections 17 and 18, 
an order is made in anticipation of proceedings being 
instituted and the proceedings are not instituted within 
such time as the High Court considers reasonable, the 
order shall be discharged.”; 
 
(g) subsection (5) shall be omitted. 
 
9. 
In section 17, 
 
 
(a) for subsection (3) there shall be substituted the following: 
 
“(3) A restraint order may apply, 
 
 
 
(a) 
where an application under subsection (4) relates to 
an external confiscation order made in respect of 
specified property, to property which is specified in 
that order; and  
 
(b) 
in any other case, 
 
(i) 
to all realisable property held by a specified 
person, whether the property is described in 
the restraint order or not; and 
 
(ii) 
to realisable property held by a specified 
person, being property transferred to him after 
the making of the restraint order.”; 
 
(b) in subsection (4) (a) for the words “by a prosecutor” there 
shall be substituted the words “on behalf of the 
Government of a designated country or, in a case 
registered under section 33, by a receiver appointed under 
subsection (7) or section 19, or a prosecutor”; 
 
(c) for subsection (4) (c) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
 
 
496 
 
 
 
 
“(c) shall, notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the 
Rules of the Supreme Court, 1970,  provide for 
service on, or the provision of notice to, persons 
affected by the order in a manner the High Court 
may direct”; 
 
(d) for subsection (5) (b) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
“(b) shall be discharged when the proceedings in relation 
to which the order was made are concluded.”. 
 
10. In section 18, 
 
(a) for subsection (1) (a) and (b) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
“(a) where a fixed amount is payable under an external 
confiscation order, of an amount not exceeding the 
amount payable; and 
 
(b) 
in any other case, of an amount equal to the value 
from time to time of the property charged.”; 
 
 
 
(b) in subsection (2) (a) for the words “by a prosecutor” there 
shall be substituted the words “on behalf of the 
Government of a designated country or, in a case where an 
external confiscation order has been registered under 
section 33, by a receiver appointed under section 17 or 19, 
or a prosecutor”; 
 
(c) for subsection (2) (c) there shall be substituted the 
following: 
 
“(c) shall, notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the 
Rules of the Supreme Court 1970,  provide for 
service on, or the provision of notice to, persons 
affected by the order in a manner the Court may 
direct;”. 
 
11.  After section 18 there shall be inserted the following 
section: 
 
18A. 
An application under section 17 
(4) or 18 (2) shall be supported by an affidavit 
which shall 
 
 
(a) 
state, where applicable, the grounds 
for believing that an  
 
 
497 
 
 
 
 
external confiscation order may be 
made in the proceedings instituted 
or to be instituted in the designated 
country concerned, 
 
(b) 
to the best of the deponent’s ability, 
give particulars of the realisable 
property in respect of which the 
order is sought and specify the 
person or persons holding that 
property, and 
 
(c) 
in a case to which section 16 (2) 
applies, indicate when it is intended 
that proceedings should be instituted 
in the designated country concerned, 
 
and the affidavit may, unless the court otherwise directs, contain 
statements of information or belief with the sources and grounds 
thereof.”. 
 
“Applications 
for restraint 
and charging 
orders. 
 
 
 
12. In section 19, for subsection (1) there shall be substituted 
the following: 
 
“(1) Where an external confiscation order has been 
registered in the High Court under section 33, the Court may, 
on the application of the Attorney General or a person 
authorised in that behalf by the Attorney General, exercise the 
powers conferred by subsections (1A) to (6). 
 
(1A) In respect of any sum of money payable under the 
external confiscation order, the Court may make a garnishee 
order as if the sum were due to the Crown in pursuance of a 
judgement or order of the Court, but any such order shall direct 
that the sum payable be paid to the Court.”. 
 
13. In section 20, 
 
(a) in subsection (1), for the words from “sums”, in the last 
place where it occurs, to the end of the subsection, there 
shall be substituted the words “be paid to the Court and 
applied for the purposes specified in this section and in the 
order so specified.”; 
 
(b) in subsection (2), for the words “If, after the amount 
payable under the confiscation order”, there shall be 
substituted the words “Where a fixed amount is  
 
 
 
 
498 
 
 
 
 
 
payable under the external confiscation order and after that 
amount.”; 
 
(c) subsection (3) shall be omitted; 
 
(d) in subsection (5) the reference to “(4)” and “(5)” in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be respectively substituted by 
“(2)” and “(4)” and the reference to “section 26(2)” shall 
be substituted by “section 25 (2)”; 
  
(e) subsection (6) shall be omitted; 
 
(f) subsection (8) shall be omitted. 
 
14. In section 21, 
 
(a) in subsection (2), for the words from “making available” to 
the end of the subsection, there shall be substituted the 
 
 
words “recovering property which is liable to be recovered 
under an external confiscation order registered in the Court 
under section 33 or, as the case may be, with a view to 
making available for recovery property which may become 
liable to be recovered under any external confiscation 
order which may be made in the defendant’s case.”; and 
 
(b) in subsection (6), after the word “the” in the fourth place 
where it occurs, there shall be inserted the word 
“external”. 
 
15. Section 22 shall be omitted. 
 
16. In section 23 (6) (a), the words “for an offence to which 
this Act Applies” shall be omitted. 
 
17. In subsection (2) of section 25 the words “out of the 
revenues of the Territory or, in a case where proceedings for an 
offence to which this Act applies are not instituted,” shall be omitted. 
 
18. Section 26 shall be omitted. 
 
19. For section 27 there shall be substituted the following:  
 
27. 
The 
Reporting 
Authority 
established under the Reporting Authority 
(Constitution and Procedure) Order, 1998 shall 
exercise the powers and perform the duties 
conferred or imposed on it under this Act”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
499 
 
 
 
 
 
20. Section 32 shall be omitted. 
 
21. Sections 34 to 37 shall be omitted. 
 
22. Sections 40 and 41 shall be omitted. 
 
23. After section 41 there shall be inserted the following 
Appendix: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Reporting 
Authority. 
S.I. No. 11 of 
1998 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
500 
 
 
APPENDIX 
[Section 2 (5) (f) (i)] 
INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS 
 
Designated Country 
Point at which proceedings are instituted 
 
 
Belgium 
 
Cyprus 
 
Denmark 
 
Germany 
 
Iceland 
 
Italy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Netherlands 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Norway 
 
Portugal 
 
Spain 
 
 
Sweden 
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when a person is notified that he is accused of an offence and 
will be brought before a court 
 
 
(a) 
when a person is notified, in accordance with article 369 of 
the Italian Code of Criminal Procedure, that a prosecution 
against him is in progress; 
 
(b) 
when a proposal for the application of a preventative 
measure (“misura di prevenzione”) is laid before a court 
 
(a) 
when a pre-trial financial investigation has been  
initiated; 
 
(b) 
when the provisional order has been ordered by an 
investigating magistrate; 
 
(c) 
when a public prosecutor has requested a pre-trial criminal 
investigation by an investigating magistrate to be 
instituted; 
 
(d) 
when a public prosecutor has laid an indictment 
 
 
 
 
when by virtue of a judicial resolution it is decided to proceed 
against a person for an offence 
 
when a public prosecutor has established that there are reasonable 
grounds to suspect that a person has committed an offence and 
accordingly is obliged under the Code of Judicial Procedure to 
notify the person of the suspicion 
 
(a) 
when an information is laid before a justice of the  
peace; 
 
(b) 
when a person is charged with an offence; 
 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is preferred; 
 
(d) 
when a petition warrant is granted 
 
 
 
 
501
 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Section 3 (2)] 
The Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 
as modified 
 
PRELIMINARY 
 
1. 
(Omitted). 
 
2. 
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 
 
"charging order" means an order made under section 18 
imposing on  such realizable property as may be specified 
in the order a charge for securing the payment of money 
to the revenue of the Territory; 
 
"criminal conduct" means conduct which constitutes an 
offence to which this Act applies or would constitute such 
an offence if it had occurred in the Territory; 
 
"defendant" means a person against whom proceedings have 
been instituted for the recovery of proceeds of criminal 
conduct, whether or not he has been convicted; 
 
"external confiscation order" means an order made by a court 
under section 6; 
 
"interest", in relation to property, includes right; 
 
"police officer" includes a person who qualifies as a customs 
officer or officer within the meaning of the Customs 
Ordinance;  
 
"proceeds of criminal conduct", in relation to any person who  
has benefitted from criminal conduct, means that benefit; 
 
"property" includes money and all other property, real or 
personal, including things in action or other intangible or 
incorporeal property; 
 
"Registrar" means the Registrar of the High Court; 
 
"restraint order" means an order made by the High Court 
under section17. 
 
(2) The expressions listed in the left-hand column below 
fall to be construed in accordance with the provisions of this Act 
listed in the right-hand column in relation to those expressions: 
 
 
502 
 
 
 
Interpretation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cap. 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relevant provision 
 
Expressions 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 17 (11)  
 
Dealing with property  
 
 
 
Section 4 (1) 
 
 
Gift caught by this Act  
 
 
 
Section 4 (3) 
 
 
Making a gift 
 
 
 
 
Section 3 (8) 
 
 
Value of gift 
 
 
 
 
Section 3 (3) 
 
 
Value of property 
 
 
 
(3) This Act applies to all property whether received 
before or after the commencement of this Act, and whether received 
in connection with criminal conduct carried on by the recipient or 
some other person. 
 
(4) References in this Act to property obtained, or to a 
pecuniary advantage derived, in connection with the commission of 
an offence include a reference to property obtained, or to a pecuniary 
advantage derived, both in that connection and in some other 
connection. 
 
(5) For the purposes of this Act, 
 
 
 
(a) 
property is held by a person if he holds an interest in it; 
 
(b) 
references to property held by a person include a 
reference to property vested in his trustee in bankruptcy 
or liquidator; 
 
(c) 
references to an interest held by a person beneficially in 
property include a reference to an interest which would be 
held by him beneficially if the property were not so 
vested; 
 
(d) 
references to an offence to which this Act applies are 
references to all indictable offences other than drug 
trafficking offences; 
 
(e) 
property is transferred by one person to another if the first 
person transfers or grants to the other an interest in the 
property; 
 
(f) 
proceedings are instituted in a designated country when 
 
(i) 
under the law of the designated country concerned 
any step specified in relation to that country in 
Column 2 of the Appendix to this Act has been 
taken there in respect of the alleged criminal conduct 
by the defendant; 
 
 
 
 
503 
Act No. 5 of 
1997
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) where no steps have been specified in relation 
thereto as mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or the 
specified procedures have since changed, the 
defendant has been notified in writing in accordance 
with the laws of the designated country that the 
competent authorities of that country have begun 
proceedings against him in respect of an offence; or 
 
(iii) an application has been made to a court in a 
designated country for an external confiscation 
order,  
 
and where the application of this subsection would result in there 
being more than one time for institution of proceedings, they shall be 
taken to have been instituted at the earliest of those times."; and 
 
 
 
(g) 
proceedings for an offence are concluded 
 
 
 
 
(i) 
when the defendant is acquitted on all counts or, as 
the case may be, every charge against him is 
dismissed; 
 
(ii) if he is convicted on one or more counts but the 
court decides not to make a confiscation order 
against him, when the court makes that decision; 
 
(iii) if he is sentenced without the court having 
considered whether or not to proceed under section 6 
in his case, when he is sentenced; or 
 
(iv) if a confiscation order is made against him in those 
proceedings, when the order is satisfied; 
 
(h) 
(Omitted). 
 
(i) 
a confiscation order is satisfied when no amount is due 
under it; and 
 
(j) 
an order is subject to appeal until (disregarding any power 
of a court to grant leave to appeal out of time) there is no 
further possibility of an appeal on which the order could 
be varied or set aside. 
 
(6) For the purpose of section 23, a confiscation order 
shall be treated as satisfied when all the property liable to be 
recovered has been recovered and all the money due to be paid has 
been paid. 
 
 
 
504 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
(1) In this Act, "realisable property" means, subject to 
subsection (2), 
 
(a) 
in relation to an external confiscation order made in 
respect of specified property, the property which is 
specified in the order; and 
 
(b) 
in any other case, 
 
(i) 
any property held by the defendant; and 
 
(ii) any property held by a person to whom the 
defendant has directly or indirectly made a gift 
caught by this Act. 
 
(2) Property is not realisable property if an order under 
section 29 of the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Act is in force in 
respect of the property. 
 
(3) (Omitted). 
 
 
(4) (Omitted). 
 
(5) Subject to the provisions of this section, for the 
purposes of this Act the value of property (other than cash), in 
relation to any person holding the property is, 
 
 
 
(a) 
where any other person holds an interest in the property, 
 
(i) 
the market value of the first mentioned person's 
beneficial interest in the property, less 
 
(ii) the amount required to discharge any incumbrance 
(other than a charging order) on that interest; and 
 
(b) 
in any other case, its market value. 
 
(6) References in this Act to the  
value at any time 
(referred to in subsection (7) as "the material time") of any property 
obtained by a person as a result of or in connection with the 
commission of an offence are references 
 
(a) 
to the value of the property to him when he obtained it 
adjusted to take account of subsequent changes in the 
value of money, or 
 
 
 
Realisable 
property 
and  its 
value. 
 
 
 
 
505 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
to, where subsection (7) applies, the value mentioned in 
that subsection, 
 
whichever is the greater. 
 
(7) If at the material time the person holds 
 
(a) 
the property (not being cash) which he obtained, or 
 
(b) 
property which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly 
represents in his hands the property which he obtained, 
 
the value referred to in subsection (6) (b) is the value to him at the 
material time of the property mentioned in paragraph (a) or, as the 
case may be, of the property mentioned in paragraph (b), so far as it 
represents the property which he obtained, but disregarding any 
charging order. 
 
(8) Subject to section 4 (3), references in this Act to the  
value at any time (referred to in subsection (9) as "the material time") 
of a gift caught by this Act are references  
 
(a) 
to the value of the gift to the recipient when he received it 
adjusted to take account of subsequent changes in the 
value of money, or 
 
(b) 
to, where subsection (9) applies, the value mentioned in 
that subsection, 
 
whichever is greater. 
 
(9) Subject to section 4 (3), if at the material time the  
 
 
person holds 
 
(a) 
the property (not being cash) which he received, or 
 
(b) 
property which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly 
represents in his hands the property which he received, 
 
the value referred to in subsection (8) is the value to him at the 
material time of the property mentioned in paragraph (a) or, as the 
case may be, of the property mentioned in paragraph (b), so far as it 
represents the property which he received, but disregarding any 
charging order. 
 
 
 
4. 
(1) A gift, including a gift made before the coming into 
force of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct (Designated Countries 
and Territories) Order, 1999, is caught by this Act if 
 
 
506 
 
 
 
(a) 
it was made by the defendant at any time after the 
commission of the offence or, if more than one, the 
earliest of the offences to which the proceedings relate; 
and 
 
(b) 
the court considers it appropriate in all the circumstances 
to take the gift into account. 
 
(2) The reference in subsection (1) to an offence to 
which the proceedings relate include, where the proceedings have 
resulted in the conviction of the defendant, a reference to an offence 
which the court takes into consideration when determining sentence. 
 
(3) For the purposes of this Act, 
 
 
 
(a) 
the circumstances in which the defendant is to be treated 
as making a gift include those where he transfers property 
to another person, directly or indirectly, for a 
consideration the value of which is significantly less than 
the value of the consideration provided by the defendant; 
and 
 
(b) 
in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (a), the 
provisions of subsections (1) and (2) and section 3 shall 
apply as if the defendant has made a gift of such share in 
the property as bears to the whole property the same 
proportion as the difference between the values referred 
to in paragraph (a) bears to the value of the consideration 
provided by the defendant. 
 
5. 
This Act applies to property wherever situated. 
 
 
 
 
MAKING OF CONFISCATION ORDERS 
 
6. 
(1) An order made by a court in a designated country for 
the purpose of recovering payments or other rewards received in 
connection with criminal conduct or their value is referred to in this 
Act as an "external confiscation order". 
 
(2) In subsection (1) the reference to an order includes 
any order, decree, direction or a judgement, or any part thereof, 
however described. 
 
(3) A person against whom an external confiscation 
order has been made, or a person against whom proceedings which 
Gifts caught 
by this Act. 
Application. 
 
 
 
 
External 
confiscation 
orders. 
 
 
may result in an external confiscation order being made have been, 
or are to be, instituted in a court in a designated country, is referred 
to in this Act as "the defendant". 
 
(Sections 7 to 14 omitted). 
 
507 
 
 
 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT, ETC., OF CONFISCATION ORDERS 
 
15. (1) If any sum required to be paid by a person under an 
external confiscation order, whether forthwith or within a specified 
period, is not paid, that person is liable to pay interest on the sum for 
the period for which it remains unpaid, provided that the law of the 
designated country from which the order emanated requires the 
payment of such interest and it is specified in the order. 
 
(2) The amount of the interest referred to in subsection 
(1) shall be treated as part of the amount to be recovered from the 
person liable to pay interest under the external confiscation order and 
the rate of interest shall be that specified in the order. 
 
(3) (Omitted). 
 
16. (1) The powers conferred on the High Court by sections 
17 (1) and 18 (1) are exercisable where 
 
(a) 
proceedings have been instituted against the defendant in 
a designated country;  
 
(b) 
the proceedings have not been concluded; and 
 
(c) 
either an external confiscation order has been made in the 
proceedings or it appears to the High Court that there are 
reasonable grounds for believing that an external 
confiscation order may  be made in them. 
 
(2) The powers conferred on the High Court by sections 
17 and 18 are also exercisable where it appears to the Court that 
proceedings are to be instituted against the defendant in a designated 
country and that there are reasonable grounds for believing that an 
external confiscation order may be made in them. 
 
(3) (Omitted). 
 
(4) Where, for the purposes of sections 17 and 18, an 
order is made in anticipation of proceedings being instituted and the 
proceedings are not in fact instituted within such time as the High 
Court considers reasonable, the order shall be discharged. 
 
(5) (Omitted). 
 
Interest on sums 
unpaid under a 
confiscation order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cases in which 
restraint and 
charging orders may 
be made. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restraint orders. 
 
 
17. (1) The High Court may make a restraint order 
prohibiting a person from dealing with any realisable  
 
 
508 
 
 
 
 
 
property, subject to such conditions and exceptions as may be 
specified in the order. 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), 
the Court may, in making a restraint order, include such provision as 
it thinks fit for living and legal expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3) A restraint order may apply, 
 
(a) 
where an application under subsection (4) relates to an 
external confiscation order made in respect of specified 
property, to property which is specified in that order; and 
 
(b) 
in any other case, 
 
(i) 
to all realisable property held by a specified person, 
whether the property is described in the restraint 
order or not; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) to realisable property held by a specified person, 
being property transferred to him after the making of 
the restraint order.”; 
 
(4) A restraint order 
 
(a) 
may be made only on an application on behalf of the 
Government of a designated country or, in a case 
registered under section 33, by a receiver appointed under 
subsection (7) or section 19, or a prosecutor”; 
 
 
(b) 
may be made on an ex parte application to a judge in 
Chambers; and 
 
(c) 
shall, notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the Rules 
of the Supreme Court, 1970,  provide for service on, or 
the provision of notice to, persons affected by the order in 
a manner the High Court may direct. 
 
(5) A restraint order 
 
(a) 
may be discharged or varied in relation to any property; 
and 
 
(b) 
shall be discharged when the proceedings in relation to 
which the order was made are concluded. 
 
 
 
(6) An application for the discharge or variation of the 
restraint order may be made by any person affected by it. 
 
 
509 
 
 
 
 
 
(7)  Where the High Court has made a restraint order, it 
may at any time appoint a receiver 
 
(a) 
to take possession of any realisable property; and 
 
(b) 
in accordance with the Court’s directions to manage or 
otherwise deal with any property in respect of which he is 
appointed,  
 
subject to such conditions and exceptions as may be specified by the 
Court, and may require any person having possession of property in 
respect of which a receiver is appointed under this subsection to give 
possession of the property to the receiver. 
 
(8) Where the High Court has made a restraint order, a 
police officer may, for the purpose of preventing any realisable 
property being removed from the Territory, seize the property. 
 
(9) Property seized under subsection (8) shall be dealt  
with in accordance with the Court’s directions. 
 
(10) This section shall not have effect in relation to a 
property that is subject to a charge under section 18. 
 
(11) For the purposes of this section, dealing with any 
property held by a person includes, 
 
(a) 
where a debt is owed to that person, making a payment to 
any person in reduction of the amount of the debt; and 
 
(b) 
removing the property from the Territory. 
 
(12) The Registered Land Ordinance shall apply in  
relation to 
 
(a) 
restraint orders, as it applies in relation to orders affecting 
land made by the court for the purpose of enforcing 
judgments; and 
 
(b) 
applications for restraint orders, as it applies in relation to 
other pending land actions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. (1) The High Court may make a charging order on 
realisable property for securing the payment to the Crown, 
Cap.  229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charging 
orders. 
 
 
 
(a) 
where a fixed amount is payable under an external 
confiscation order, of an amount not exceeding the 
amount payable; and 
 
 
510 
 
 
 
(b) 
in any other case, of an amount equal in the value from 
time to time of the property charged. 
 
(2) A charging order 
 
(a) 
may be made only on an application on behalf  of the 
Government of a designated country or in a case where an 
external confiscation order has been registered under 
section 33, by a receiver appointed under section 17 or 
19, or a prosecutor. 
 
(b) 
may be made on an ex parte application to a judge in 
chambers; 
 
(c) 
shall, notwithstanding anything in Order 11 of the Rules 
of the Supreme Court, 1970,  provide for service on, or 
the provision of notice to, persons affected by the order in 
a manner the Court may direct; and 
 
(d) 
may be made subject to such conditions as the court 
thinks fit, including the time when the charge is to 
become effective. 
 
(3) Subject to subsection (5), a charge may be imposed 
by a charging order only on an interest in realisable property, 
 
(a) 
being an interest held beneficially by the defendant or by 
a person to  whom the defendant has directly or indirectly 
made a gift caught by this Act 
 
(i) 
in any asset of a kind mentioned in subsection (4); or 
 
(ii) under any trust; or 
 
(b) 
held by a person as trustee of a trust if the interest is in 
such an asset or is an interest under another trust, and a 
charge may by virtue of paragraph (a) be imposed by a 
charging order on the whole beneficial interest under the 
first-mentioned trust. 
 
(4) The assets referred to in subsection (3) are 
 
(a) 
land in the Territory; or 
 
(b) 
securities of any of the following kinds: 
 
 
 
(i) 
any description of security issued by or on behalf of 
the Government of the Territory; 
 
 
511 
 
 
 
 
(ii) the stock of any body corporate incorporated within 
the Territory; 
 
(iii) shares in any mutual fund registered under the 
Mutual Funds Act, 1996. 
 
(5) In any case where a charge is imposed by a charging  
order on an interest in an asset of a kind mentioned in subsection (4) 
(b), the Court may provide for the charge to extend to any interest or 
dividend payable in respect of the asset. 
 
(6) In relation to a charging order, the court 
 
(a) 
may at any time make an order discharging or varying it; 
and 
 
(b) 
shall make an order discharging it on  
 
(i) 
the conclusion of the proceedings or application in 
question, or 
 
(ii) the payment into court of the amount payment of 
which is secured by the charge,  
 
 
whichever occurs first. 
 
(7) An application for the discharge or variation of a 
charging order may be made by any person affected by it. 
 
(8) The Registered Land Ordinance shall apply in 
relation to charging orders as it applies in relation to orders or writs 
issued or made for the purpose of enforcing judgments. 
  
 
 
(9) Subject to any provision made under section 19 or 
by rules of court, a charge imposed by a charging order shall have 
the like effect and be enforceable in the same manner as an equitable 
charge created by the person holding the beneficial interest or, as the 
case may be, the trustee by writing under their hand. 
 
18A. An application under section 17 (4) or 18 (2) shall be by 
an affidavit which shall 
 
(a) 
state, where applicable, the grounds for believing that an 
external confiscation order may be made in the 
proceedings instituted or to be instituted in the designated 
 
 
 
 
 
Act No.  6 of 
1996 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cap.  229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applications 
for supported 
restraint and 
charging 
Orders. 
 
 
country concerned, 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
to the best of the deponent’s ability, give particulars of 
the realisable property in respect of which the  
 
 
 
 
 
512 
 
 
order is  sought and specify the person or persons holding 
that property, and 
 
(c) 
in a case to which section 16 (2) applies, indicate when it 
is intended that proceedings should be instituted in the 
designated country concerned, 
 
and the affidavit may,  unless the court otherwise directs, contain 
statements of information or belief with the sources and grounds 
thereof. 
 
19.  (1) Where an external confiscation order has been 
registered in the High Court under section 33, the Court may, on the 
application of the Attorney General or a person authorised in that 
behalf by the Attorney General, exercise the powers conferred by 
subsections (1A) to (6). 
 
(1A) In respect of any sum of money payable under the 
external confiscation order, the Court may make a garnishee order as 
if the sum were due to the Crown in pursuance of a judgment or 
order of the Court, but any such order shall direct that the sum 
payable be paid to the Court. 
 
(2) The Court may appoint a receiver in respect of 
realisable property. 
 
(3) The Court may empower a receiver appointed under 
subsection (2), under section 17 or in pursuance of a charging order, 
 
(a) 
to enforce any charge imposed under section 18 on 
realisable property or on interest or dividends payable in 
respect of such property; and 
 
(b) 
in relation to any realisable property other than property 
subject to a charge under section 18, to take possession of 
the property subject to such conditions or exceptions as 
may be specified by the Court. 
 
(4) The Court may 
 
(a) 
order any person having possession of realisable property 
to give possession of it to any such receiver; 
 
(b) 
empower any such receiver to realise any realisable 
property in such manner as the Court may direct; and 
Realisation 
of property.
 
 
 
(c) 
order any person holding an interest in realisable property 
to make such payment to the receiver in respect of any 
beneficial interest held by the  
 
 
513 
 
 
 
defendant or, as the case may be, the recipient of a gift 
caught by this Act, as the Court may direct and the Court 
may, on payment being made, by order transfer, grant or 
extinguish any interest in the property. 
 
(5) Subsection (4) does not apply to property which is  
subject to a charge under section 18. 
 
(6) The Court shall not, in respect of any property, 
exercise the powers conferred by subsections (3)(a) and (4)(b) and 
(c), unless a reasonable opportunity has been given for persons 
holding an interest in the property to make representations to the 
Court. 
 
20. (1) Subject to subsection (2), 
 
(a) 
the proceeds of the enforcement of any charge imposed 
under section 18, 
 
(b) 
the proceeds of the realisation, other than by the 
enforcement of a charge, of any property under section 17 
or 19, and 
 
(c) 
any other sums, being property held by the defendant,  
 
which are in the hands of a receiver appointed under this Act or in 
pursuance of a charging order shall, after such payments (if any) as 
the High Court may direct have been made out of those sums, be 
paid to the Court and applied for the purposes specified in this 
section and in the order so specified. 
 
(2) Where a fixed amount is payable under the external 
confiscation order and after that amount has been fully paid, any 
sums remain in the hands of the receiver, he shall distribute the sums 
among those persons who held property which has been realised 
under this Act, and in such proportions as the High Court may direct 
after giving a reasonsable opportunity for such persons to make 
representations to the Court. 
 
(3) (Omitted). 
 
(4) If the money was paid to the Registrar by a receiver 
appointed under this Act or in pursuance of a charging order, the 
Registrar shall next pay the receiver’s remuneration and expenses. 
 
Application 
of proceeds 
of realisation 
and other 
sums. 
 
 
(5) After making 
 
 
 
514 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
any payment required by subsection (2), and 
 
(b) 
in a case to which subsection (4) applies, any payment 
required by that subsection, 
 
the Registrar shall reimburse any amount paid under section 25 (2). 
 
(6) (Omitted). 
 
(7) Any balance in the hands of the Registrar after he 
has made all payments required by this section shall be treated as if it 
were a fine imposed by the court. 
 
(8) (Omitted). 
 
21.  (1) This section applies to the powers conferred on the 
High Court by sections 17 to 20, or on a receiver appointed under 
this Act or in pursuance of a charging order. 
 
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the power 
referred to in subsection (1) shall be exercised with a view to 
recovering property which is liable to be recovered under an external 
confiscation order registered in the Court under section 33 or, as the 
case may be, with a view to making available for recovery property 
which may become liable to be recovered under any external 
confiscation order which may be made in the defendant’s case. 
 
(3) In the case of realisable property held by a person to 
whom the defendant has directly or indirectly made a gift caught by 
this Act, the powers shall be exercised with a view to realising no 
more than the value for the time being of the gift. 
 
(4) The powers shall be exercised with a view to 
allowing any person other than the defendant or the recipient of any 
such gift to retain or recover the value of any property held by him. 
 
(5) An order may be made or other action taken in 
respect of a debt owed by the Crown. 
 
(6) In exercising those powers, no account shall be 
taken of any obligations of the defendant or of the recipient of any 
such gift which conflict with the obligation to satisfy the external 
confiscation order. 
 
22. (Omitted). 
Exercise of 
powers by 
High Court or 
receiver.
 
 
 
 
 
515 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23. (1) Where an order for bankruptcy is made against a 
person 
who holds realisable property, 
 
(a) 
any property for the time being subject to a restraint order 
made before the order for bankruptcy, and 
  
(b) 
any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 17 
(7) or 19 (4) (b) or (c) for the time being in the hands of a 
receiver appointed under section 17 or 19, 
 
is excluded from the property of the bankrupt for the purposes 
of the Bankruptcy Act. 
 
(2) Where an order for bankruptcy is made against a 
person, the powers conferred on the High Court by sections 17 to 20 
or on a receiver so appointed shall not be exercised in relation 
 
(a) 
to property comprised in the property of the bankrupt for 
the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act; and 
 
(b) 
to property of which is to be applied for the benefit of 
creditors of the bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Act. 
 
 
 
(3) Subject to subsection (2), nothing in the Bankruptcy  
Act shall be taken as restricting, or enabling the restriction of, the 
exercise of the powers conferred on the High Court by sections 17 to 
20 or on a receiver so appointed. 
 
(4) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a 
charging order 
 
(a) 
made before the order for bankruptcy was made; or 
 
 
(b) 
on property which was subject to a restraint order when 
the order for bankruptcy was made. 
 
(5) Where, in the case of a debtor, 
 
(a) 
the trustee in bankruptcy constituted under Part V of the 
Bankruptcy Act has been ordered to become the receiver 
or manager of the property or business of the debtor, and 
 
(b) 
any property of the debtor is subject to a restraint order, 
Bankruptcy of 
defendant, etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cap.  8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cap.  8 
 
 
 
 
Cap.  8 
 
 
 
Cap.  8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cap.  8 
 
 
 
 
the powers conferred on the trustee by virtue of the Bankruptcy Act  
 
do not apply to property subject to the restraint order. 
 
 
516 
 
 
 
(6) Where an order for bankruptcy is made against a 
person who has directly or indirectly made a gift caught by this Act, 
the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act shall not apply 
 
(a) 
in respect of the making of the gift at any time  when 
proceedings have been instituted against him and have 
not been concluded; or 
 
(b) 
when property of the person to whom the gift was made is 
subject to a restraint order or charging order. 
 
24. (1) Where realisable property is held by a company and  
an order for the winding up of the company has been made or a  
resolution has been passed by the company for the voluntary winding 
up, the functions of the liquidator (or any provisional liquidator) 
shall not be exercisable in relation 
 
(a) 
to property subject to a restraint order made before the 
relevant time; and 
 
(b) 
to any proceeds of property realised by virtue of section 
17(7) or 19(4)(b)  or (c) for the time being in the hands of 
a receiver appointed under section 17 or 19. 
 
 
 
 
(2) Where, in the case of a company, such an order has  
been made or such a resolution has been passed, the powers 
conferred on the High Court by sections 17 to 19 or on a receiver so 
appointed shall not be exercised in relation to which the functions of 
the liquidator are exercisable so as to  
 
(a) 
inhibit him from exercising those functions for the 
purpose of distributing any property held by the company 
to the company’s creditors; or 
 
(b) 
prevent the payment out of any property of expenses 
(including the remuneration of the liquidator or any 
provisional liquidator) properly incurred in the winding 
up in respect of the property. 
 
(3) Subsection (2) does not affect the enforcement of a 
charging order made before the relevant time or on property which 
was subject to a restraint order at the relevant time. 
 
(4) For the purposes of this section, “relevant time” 
means, 
 
 
Winding up 
of company 
holding 
realisable 
property. 
 
 
(a) 
where no order for the winding up of the company has 
been made, the time of the passing of the resolution for 
voluntary winding up; 
 
 
517 
 
 
 
(b) 
where an order for the winding up of the company has 
been made and, before the presentation of the petition for 
the winding up of the company by the court, the 
resolution for voluntary winding up had been passed by 
the company, the time of the passing of the resolution;  
and 
 
 
(c) 
in any other case where an order for the winding up of the 
company has been made, the time of the making of the 
order. 
 
25.  (1) Where a receiver appointed under this Act or in 
pursuance of a charging order takes any action 
 
 
(a) 
in relation to property which is not realisable property, 
being action which he would be entitled to take if it were 
such property, 
 
 
(b) 
believing, and having reasonable grounds for believing, 
that he is entitled to take that action in relation to that 
property, 
 
he shall not be liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage 
resulting from his action, except in so far as the loss or damage is 
caused by his negligence. 
 
(2) Any amount due in respect of the remuneration and 
expenses of a receiver so appointed shall, if no sum is available to be 
applied in payment of it under section 20 (5), be paid out of the 
revenues of the Territory or, in a case where proceedings to which 
this Act applies are not instituted, by the person on whose 
application the receiver was appointed. 
 
26. (Omitted). 
 
 
MONEY LAUNDERING AND OTHER OFFENCES 
 
27. The Reporting Authority established under the Reporting  
 
Authority (Constitution and Procedure) Order, 1998 shall exercise 
the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed on it under 
this Act. 
 
28. (1) Subject to subsection (3), a person commits an 
offence if he enters into or is otherwise concerned in an arrangement 
whereby 
Supple-mentary 
provisions 
relating to 
receivers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting 
Authority. S.I. 
No. 11 of 1998 
 
 
 
 
Assisting 
another to retain 
the benefit of 
criminal 
conduct
 
 
 
(a) 
the retention or control by or on behalf of another person 
of that other person’s proceeds  of criminal conduct is 
facilitated, whether by concealment, removal from the 
Territory, transfer to nominees or otherwise, or 
 
 
518 
 
 
 
 
(b) the proceeds of criminal conduct of that other person 
mentioned in paragraph (a) are used 
 
 
 
(i) 
to secure that funds are placed at that other person’s 
disposal, or 
 
 
 
(ii) 
for that other person’s benefit to acquire property by 
way of investment, 
 
knowing or suspecting that other person is a person who is or has 
been engaged in criminal conduct or has benefitted from criminal 
conduct. 
 
 
 
(2) 
Where a person discloses to the Reporting Authority 
a suspicion or belief that any funds or investments are derived from 
or used in connection with criminal conduct or discloses to the 
Reporting Authority any matter on which such a suspicion or belief 
is based, 
 
 
(a) the disclosure shall not be treated as a breach of any 
restriction upon the disclosure of information imposed by 
statute or otherwise and shall not give rise to any civil 
liability; and 
 
 
(b) if he does any act in contravention of subsection (1) and the 
disclosure relates to the arrangement concerned, he does not 
commit an offence under this section if 
 
 
 
(i) 
the disclosure is made before he does the act 
concerned; or 
 
 
 
(ii) 
the disclosure is made after he does the act, but is 
made on his initiative and as soon as it is reasonable 
for him to make it. 
 
 
 
(3) 
In proceedings against a person for an offence under 
this section, it is a defence to prove 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
that he did not know or suspect that the 
arrangement 
related 
to 
any 
person’s 
proceeds of criminal conduct; 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
that he did not know or suspect that by the 
arrangement the retention or control by or 
 
 
on behalf of the other person mentioned in 
subsection 
(1) 
of 
any 
property 
was 
facilitated or, as the case may be, that by the 
arrangement any property was used as 
mentioned in subsection (1); or 
 
 
519 
 
 
(c) that he intended to disclose to the Reporting Authority such 
a suspicion, belief or matter as is mentioned in subsection (2) 
in relation to the arrangement, but there was reasonable 
excuse for this failure to make disclosure in accordance with 
subsection (2) (b). 
 
 
 
(4) 
In the case of a person who was in employment at 
the relevant time, subsections (2) and (3) shall have effect in relation 
to disclosures and intended disclosures to the appropriate person in 
accordance with the procedure established by his employer for the 
making of such disclosures as they have effect in relation to 
disclosures and intended disclosures to the Reporting Authority. 
 
 
 
(5) 
Where information is disclosed to the Reporting 
Authority under subsection (2), the Authority shall not further 
disclose the information without the consent of the Attorney General 
who, when considering whether to give his consent, shall take into 
account 
 
 
(a) the purpose for which the further disclosure is to be made, 
and 
 
 
(b) the interests of third parties, 
 
and the Attorney General may impose such conditions on the further 
disclosure as he may think fit. 
 
 
 
(6) 
Subsection (5) does not apply to information 
received by the Reporting Authority which it discloses to any 
institution or person in the Territory. 
 
 
 
(7) 
Subject to subsections (5) and (6), the Reporting 
Authority may disclose any information received under this section 
in relation to criminal conduct, 
 
 
(a) to any law enforcement agency in the Territory, or 
 
 
(b) to any law enforcement agency in any other country, in order 
 
 
 
(i) 
to report the possible commission of an offence; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
to initiate a criminal investigation respecting the 
matter disclosed; 
 
 
 
(iii) 
to assist with any investigation or criminal 
proceedings respecting the matter disclosed; or 
 
 
 
(iv) 
to generally give effect to the purposes of this Act. 
 
 
 
 
520 
 
 
 
 
(8) 
A person who commits an offence under this section 
 
is liable 
 
 
(a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding three 
thousand dollars, or both, or 
 
 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding fourteen years or to a fine not exceeding twenty 
thousand dollars, or both. 
 
 
 
(9) 
In this section, references to any person’s proceeds 
of criminal conduct include a reference to any property which in 
whole or in part directly or indirectly represents in his hands his 
proceeds of criminal conduct. 
 
 
29. (1) A person commits an offence if, knowing that any 
 
 property is, or in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents, 
 
 another person’s proceeds of criminal conduct, he acquires or uses 
 
 that property or has possession of it.  
 
 
 
(2) 
It is a defence to a charge of committing an offence  
under this section that the person charged acquired or used the 
property or had possession of it for adequate consideration. 
 
 
 
(3) 
For the purposes of subsection (2), 
 
 
(a) a person acquires property for inadequate consideration if 
the value of the consideration is significantly less than the 
value of the property; and 
 
 
(b) a person uses or has possession of property for inadequate 
consideration if the value of the consideration is significantly 
less than the value of his use or possession of the property. 
 
 
 
(4) 
The provision for any person of services of goods 
which are of assistance to him in criminal conduct shall not be 
treated as consideration for the purposes of subsection (2). 
 
 
 
(5) 
Where a person discloses to the Reporting Authority  
a suspicion or belief that any property is, or in whole or in part 
directly or indirectly represents, another person’s proceeds of 
criminal conduct or discloses to the Reporting Authority any matter 
on which such a suspicion or belief is based, 
 
(a) the disclosure shall not be treated as a breach of any 
Acquisition, 
possession or 
use of proceeds 
of criminal 
conduct. 
 
 
restriction upon the disclosure of information  
 
521 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imposed by statute or otherwise and shall not give rise to any 
civil liability; and 
 
 
(b) if he does any act in relation to that property in contravention 
of subsection (1), he does not commit an offence under this 
section if 
 
 
 
(i) 
the disclosure is made before he does the act 
concerned; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
the disclosure is made after he does the act, but on 
his initiative and as soon as it is reasonable for him 
to make it. 
 
 
 
(6) 
Where information is disclosed to the Reporting 
Authority under section 28 (2), the Authority shall not further 
disclose the information without the consent of the Attorney General 
who, when considering whether to give his consent, shall take into 
account 
 
 
(a) 
the purpose for which the further disclosure is to be made, 
and 
 
 
(b) 
the interests of third parties, and the Attorney General may 
impose such conditions on the further disclosure as he may 
think fit. 
 
 
 
(7) 
Subsection (6) does not apply to information 
received by the Reporting Authority respecting a matter which it 
requires to disclose to any institution or person in the Territory. 
 
 
 
(8) 
Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the Reporting 
Authority may disclose any information received under this section 
in relation to a criminal conduct, 
 
 
(a) to any law enforcement agency in the Territory, 
 
 
(b) to any law enforcement agency in any other country in order 
 
 
 
(i) 
to report the possible commission of an offence; 
 
 
 
(ii) 
to initiate a criminal investigation respecting the 
matter disclosed; 
 
 
 
(iii) 
to assist with any investigation respecting the matter 
disclosed; or 
 
 
 
 
 
(iv) 
to generally give effect to the purposes of this Act. 
 
 
 
 
522 
 
 
 
 
(9) 
In proceedings against a person for an offence under 
this section, it is a defence to prove that he intended to disclose to the 
Reporting Authority such a suspicion, belief or matter as is 
mentioned in subsection (5), but there was reasonable excuse for his 
failure to make the disclosure in accordance with paragraph (b) of 
that subsection. 
 
 
 
(10) 
In the case of a person who was in employment at 
the relevant time, subsections (5) and (9) shall have effect in relation 
to disclosures, and intended disclosures, to the appropriate person in 
accordance with the procedure established by his employer for the 
making of such disclosures as they have effect in relation to 
disclosures, and intended disclosures, to the Reporting Authority. 
 
 
 
(11) 
A person who commits an offence under this section 
 
is liable 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
on summary conviction, to imprisonment for 
a term not exceeding six months or to a fine 
not exceeding three thousand dollars, or 
both; or 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
on 
conviction 
on 
indictment, 
to 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
fourteen years or to a fine not exceeding 
twenty thousand dollars, or both. 
 
 
 
(12) 
No member of the Reporting Authority or other 
person  commits an offence under this section in respect of anything 
done by him in the course of acting in connection with the 
enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any criminal conduct or 
the proceeds of such conduct. 
 
 
 
(13) 
For the purposes of this section, having possession 
of any property shall be taken to be doing an act in relation to it. 
 
 
30. (1) 
A person commits an offence if he 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
conceals or disguises any property which is, 
or in whole or in part directly or indirectly 
represents, his proceeds of criminal conduct, 
or 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
converts or transfers that property or 
removes it from the Territory, 
 
Concealing 
or 
transferring 
proceeds of 
criminal 
conduct. 
 
 
for the purpose of avoiding prosecution for an offence to which this 
Act applies or the making or enforcement in his case of a 
confiscation order. 
 
 
 
(2) 
A person commits an offence if, knowing or having 
reasonable grounds to suspect that any property is, or 
523 
 
 
 
 
in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents, another person’s 
proceeds of criminal conduct, he 
 
 
(a) conceals or disguises that property, or 
 
(b) converts or transfers that property or removes it from the 
Territory, 
 
for the purpose of assisting any person to avoid prosecution for an 
offence to which this Act applies or the making or enforcement in his 
case of a confiscation order. 
 
 
 
(3) 
In subsections (1) and (2), the references to 
concealing  
or disguising any property include references to 
concealing or disguising its nature, source, location, disposition, 
movement or ownership or any rights with respect to it. 
 
 
 
(4) 
A person who commits an offence under this section 
is liable 
 
 
(a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding three 
thousand dollars, or both; or 
 
 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding fourteen years or to a fine not exceeding twenty 
thousand dollars, or both. 
 
 
31. (1) 
A person commits an offence if 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
he knows or suspects that any member of the 
Reporting Authority or other person is 
acting, or is proposing to act, in connection 
with an investigation which is being, or is 
about 
to 
be, 
conducted 
into 
money 
laundering; and 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
he discloses to any other person information 
or any other matter which is likely to 
prejudice that investigation, or proposed 
investigation. 
 
 
 
(2) 
A person commits an offence if 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
he knows or suspects that a disclosure (“the 
disclosure”) has been made to the Reporting 
Tipping-off. 
 
 
Authority under section 28 or 29; and 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
he discloses to any other person information 
or any other matter which is likely to 
prejudice any investigation which might be 
conducted following the disclosure. 
 
524 
 
 
 
(3) 
A person commits an offence if 
 
 
 
(a) he knows or suspects that a disclosure (“the disclosure”) of a 
kind mentioned in section 28 (2) or 29 (5) has been made; 
and 
 
 
(b) he discloses to any person information or any  other matter 
which is likely to prejudice any investigation which might be 
conducted following the disclosure. 
 
 
 
(4) 
Nothing in subsections (1) to (3) makes it an offence  
for a professional legal adviser to disclose any information or other 
matter 
 
 
(a) to, or to a representative of, a client of his in connection with 
the giving by the adviser of legal advice to the client; or 
 
 
(b) to any person 
 
 
 
(i) 
in contemplation of, or in connection with, legal 
proceedings; and 
 
 
 
(ii) 
for the purpose of those proceedings. 
 
 
 
(5) 
Subsection (4) does not apply in relation to any 
information or other matter which is disclosed with a view to 
furthering any criminal purpose. 
 
 
 
(6) 
In proceedings against a person for an offence under 
subsection (1), (2) or (3), it is a defence to prove that he did not 
know or suspect that the disclosure was likely to be prejudicial in the 
way mentioned in that subsection. 
 
 
 
(7) 
In this section “money laundering” means doing any 
act which constitutes an offence under section 28, 29 or 30 or, in the 
case of an act done otherwise than in the Territory, would constitute 
such an offence if done in the Territory. 
 
 
 
(8) 
For the purposes of subsection (7), having 
possession of any property shall be taken to be doing an act in 
relation to it. 
 
 
 
(9) 
A person who commits an offence under this section 
 
is liable 
 
 
 
 
(a) on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding three 
thousand dollars, or both; or 
 
 
525 
 
 
 
 
(b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not 
exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand 
dollars, or both. 
 
 
 
(10) 
No member of the Reporting Authority or other 
person  shall be convicted of an offence under this section in respect 
of anything done by him in the course of acting in connection with 
the enforcement, or intended enforcement, of any provision of this 
Act or of any other enactment relating to an offence to which this 
Act applies. 
 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT OF EXTERNAL ORDERS 
 
 
32. (Omitted). 
 
 
33. (1) 
On an application made by the Attorney General on 
 
behalf of the Government of a designated country, the High Court 
 
may register an external confiscation order made there if 
 
 
(a) it is satisfied that at the time of registration the order is in 
force and not subject to appeal; 
 
 
(b) it is satisfied, where the person against whom the order so 
made did not appear in the proceedings, that he received 
notice of the proceedings in sufficient time to enable him to 
defend them; and 
 
 
(c) it is of the opinion that enforcing the order in the Territory 
would not be contrary to the interests of justice. 
 
 
 
(2) 
The High Court shall not register an external 
confiscation order made in a designated country where the Attorney 
General has issued a certificate to the effect that the application to 
register the order is contrary to the public interest of the Territory. 
 
 
 
(3) 
The High Court shall cancel the registration of an 
external confiscation order if it appears to the Court that the order 
has been satisfied by payment of the amount due under it or by the 
person against whom it was made serving imprisonment in default of 
payment or by any other means. 
 
 
 
(4) 
For the purposes of subsection (1), “appeal” includes 
 
 
(a) any proceedings by way of discharging or setting aside a 
Registration of 
external 
confiscation 
orders. 
 
 
judgement; and 
 
 
(b) an application for a new trial or a stay of execution. 
 
 
 
 
 
526 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
 
34. (Omitted). 
 
 
35. (Omitted). 
 
 
36. (Omitted). 
 
 
37. (Omitted). 
 
 
38. No action shall be brought against any police officer or 
of 
the Reporting Authority for anything done by him, in good faith,  
 
in exercise of the powers conferred on him by this Act. 
 
 
 
39. No prosecution for an offence under section 28, 29, 30 or 31 
shall be instituted without the consent of the Attorney General. 
 
 
 
40. (Omitted). 
 
 
41. (Omitted). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
527
Immunity 
from suit. 
 
 
 
 
Consent of
Attorney 
General  
required for
prosecution 
of certain 
offences. 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[ Section 2 (5) (f) (i) ] 
 
INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS 
 
Designated Country 
Point at which proceedings are instituted 
 
 
Belgium 
 
Cyprus 
 
Denmark 
 
Germany 
 
 
Iceland 
 
Italy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Netherlands 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Norway 
 
Portugal 
 
Spain 
 
 
Sweden 
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when a person is notified that he is accused of an offence and   will 
be brought before a court 
 
 
 
(a) 
when a person is notified, in accordance with article     369 
of the Italian Code of Criminal Procedure, that a 
prosecution against him is in progress; 
 
(b) 
when a proposal for the application of a preventative 
measure (“misura di prevenzione”) is laid before a court 
 
(a) 
when a pre-trial financial investigation has been  
initiated; 
 
(b) 
when the provisional order has been ordered by an 
investigating magistrate; 
 
(c) 
when a public prosecutor has requested a pre-trial criminal 
investigation by an investigating magistrate to     be 
instituted; 
 
(d) 
when a public prosecutor has laid an indictment 
 
 
 
 
when by virtue of a judicial resolution it is decided to proceed 
against a person for an offence 
 
when a public prosecutor has established that there are reasonable 
grounds to suspect that a person has committed an offence and 
accordingly is obliged under the Code of Judicial Procedure to 
notify the person of the suspicion 
 
(a) 
when an information is laid before a justice of the     peace; 
 
(b) 
when a person is charged with an offence; 
 
(c) 
when a bill of indictment is preferred; 
 
(d) 
when a petition warrant is granted 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Made by the Governor in Council this 29th day of September,1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ERICA SMITH-PENN, 
Ag. Clerk of the Executive Council. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 
 
