No. 25 of 2021 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2021 
 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
 
Section  
 
1… 
Short title and commencement. 
2… 
Section 2 amended. 
3… 
New section 5A inserted. 
4… 
Section 11 amended. 
5… 
New section 26A inserted. 
6… 
Section 27 amended. 
7… 
Section 27A amended. 
8… 
Section 28 amended. 
9… 
Section 29 amended. 
10… Section 30 amended. 
11.. 
Section 30A amended. 
12.. 
Section 31 amended. 
13.. 
Section 34B amended. 
14.. 
Section 37A amended. 
 
 
2 
 
No. 25 of 2021    
    Proceeds of Criminal Conduct  
 
Virgin  
         (Amendment) Act, 2021   
 
 
Islands 
 
 
I Assent 
(Sgd.) John J. Rankin CMG 
Governor. 
 
14th June, 2021 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
No. 25 of 2021 
 
 
 
An Act to amend the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 (No. 5 of 1997) and to 
provide for other matters connected therewith. 
 
 
[Gazetted 22nd June, 2021] 
 
 
ENACTED by the Legislature of the Virgin Islands as follows: 
 
 
Short title and 
1. 
(1) 
This Act may be cited as the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct (Amendment) 
commencement.  Act, 2021.  
 
 
(2) 
This Act shall come into force on such date as the Governor may, by 
Proclamation published in the Gazette, appoint. 
 
 
Section 2 
2. 
Section 2 of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as  
amended. 
the “principal Act”) is amended –  
 
(a) in subsection (1) –  
 
(i) 
in the definition of “criminal conduct”, by deleting the words “and, for 
the purposes of a confiscation order, includes a person against whom 
proceedings have been instituted for an offence under the Drugs 
(Prevention of Misuse) Act”;  
 
(ii) 
by deleting the definition of “property” and substituting the following 
definition –  
 
3 
 
“property” includes money and all other property, real or personal, 
including things in action, virtual assets and other intangible or 
incorporeal property, and “virtual assets” shall be interpreted as 
referring to any digital representation of value that can be digitally 
traded or transferred and can be used for payment or investment 
purposes;”;  
 
(iii) 
by inserting in their appropriate alphabetical order, the following new 
definitions –  
 
““money laundering” means the doing of any act which constitutes an 
offence under section 28, 29, 30 or 30A or, in the case of an act 
done otherwise than in the Territory, would constitute such an 
offence if done in the Territory, and, for that purpose, having 
possession of any property shall be taken to be doing an act in 
relation to the property; 
 
“terrorist financing” has the meaning ascribed to it in section 2 (1) of 
the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 2003;”; and  
 
(iv) 
by deleting the definition of “Steering Committee”;  
 
(b) by deleting subsection (1A) and substituting the following new subsection –  
 
“(1A)  
Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference in this Act to 
“money laundering”, “countering the financing of terrorism” and “terrorist 
financing” shall be construed to include proliferation financing within the 
meaning of the Proliferation Financing (Prohibition) Act and, if applicable, 
the Financial Investigation Agency Act.”; and 
 
(c) in subsection (5) (d), by deleting the word “indictable”. 
 
New section  
3. 
The principal Act is amended by inserting immediately after section 5, the  
5A inserted. 
following new section –  
 
5A. 
(1) 
Where a police officer or the Agency institutes 
investigations in respect of a criminal conduct or a financial 
offence, the police officer or the Agency, as the case may be, shall, 
where it is reasonable to do so having regard to the nature and 
circumstance of the criminal conduct or financial offence, at the 
same time investigate any related money laundering or terrorist 
financing offence. 
 
 
(2) 
Subsection (1) also applies where the Agency, 
acting in accordance with the powers conferred on it under section 
4 (2) (l) of the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 2003, provides 
“Investigation 
of predicate 
and related 
offences. 
4 
 
documents and other information to the Commissioner of Police in 
relation to the commission of an offence. 
 
 
(3) 
The term “financial offence” bears the same 
meanings ascribed to it in section 2 (1) of the Financial 
Investigation Agency Act, 2003.”. 
 
 
Section 11  
4. 
Section 11 of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) by inserting after subsection (4), the following new subsection –  
 
“(4A) 
Subsection (4) shall not affect the power of the court to 
deal with the defendant in respect of a failure to comply with an order 
under this section.”; 
 
(b) by adding after subsection (6), the following new subsections – 
 
“(7) 
Where the court makes an order under this section, it may 
at any time vary it by making another order. 
 
(8)  
No information given under this section which amounts to 
an admission by the defendant that he has benefitted from criminal 
conduct is admissible in evidence in proceedings for an offence, but 
such document or information is otherwise admissible in evidence in 
proceedings for a confiscation or forfeiture order.”.   
 
 
5. 
The principal Act is amended by inserting under the heading “MONEY 
LAUNDERING AND OTHER OFFENCES” after section 26, the following new 
sections –   
 
26A. 
(1) 
The Agency shall be the authority responsible for 
the receipt of reports on suspicious transactions and other disclosures 
relating to money laundering and terrorist financing.  
 
   (2) 
Where an obligation is placed on a person under 
this Act or any other enactment to make a suspicious transaction report 
or other disclosure in relation to a money laundering or terrorist 
financing activity, that report or disclosure shall be made to the 
Agency.  
 
     (3) 
Where the Agency receives a suspicious transaction 
report or other disclosure relating to money laundering or terrorist 
financing, it shall deal with the report or other disclosure in accordance 
with its functions under the Financial Investigation Agency Act, 2003 
“Authority for 
receipt of 
suspicious 
transaction 
reports. 
New section 
26A inserted. 
5 
 
or in such other manner as may be provided under this Act or any 
other enactment. 
 
26B. 
(1) 
There is established a council to be known as the 
National 
Anti-money 
Laundering 
and 
Terrorist 
Financing 
Coordinating Council (“the Coordinating Committee”) which shall 
consist of – 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
the Premier, as Chairperson; 
 
   
 
 
(b) 
the Governor; 
 
 
 
(c) 
the Deputy Governor; 
 
 
 
(d) 
the Attorney General; 
 
 
 
(e) 
the Managing Director of the Commission; 
 
 
 
(f) 
a member of the Joint Anti-money 
  
 
 
Laundering and Terrorist Financing  
 
 
 
Advisory Committee established under  
 
 
 
section 27A;  
 
 
 
(g) 
a member of the Inter-governmental  
 
 
 
Committee on Anti-money Laundering and  
 
 
 
Terrorist Financing Group established  
 
 
 
pursuant to section 50 of the Anti-money  
 
 
 
Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of  
 
 
 
Practice; and   
 
 
 
(h) 
a member of the Council of Competent  
 
 
 
Authorities established under section 10A of  
 
 
 
the Criminal Justice (International  
 
 
 
Cooperation) Act, 1993. 
 
 
(2) 
The Council shall act as the Territory’s focal point 
for the coordination of all policies, including ensuring the 
Territory’s compliance with established international standards to 
which the Territory is a party or has subscribed to, relating to the 
activities of money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 
(3) 
Without prejudice to any specific function or power 
that may be imposed or conferred under an enactment on a 
member of the Council, institution or any other person, the Council 
may exercise such powers as are reasonable to ensure the 
Territory’s compliance with enactments and any established 
Establishment 
of National 
Anti-money 
Laundering and 
Terrorist 
Financing 
Coordinating 
Council. 
6 
 
policies relating to the activities of money laundering and terrorist 
financing and, in that regard, may – 
 
(a) give such orders or directives as it considers 
appropriate; 
 
(b) cause surveys or internal self-assessments to be 
carried out to determine the risks of money 
laundering and terrorist financing in the 
Territory, including the level of compliance 
with laws and policies in respect thereof; and 
 
(c) provide or recommend the provision of 
necessary resources to ensure the efficient and 
effective implementation of laws and policies 
relating to money laundering and terrorist 
financing. 
 
(4) 
In the discharge of its functions and the exercise of 
its powers under this section, the Council shall determine its own 
rules of procedure.”.   
 
Section 27 
6. 
Section 27 of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) in subsection (1), by deleting the opening paragraph and substituting the 
following new opening paragraph –   
 
“The Commission may, after consultation with the Joint Anti-money 
Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory Committee established under 
section 27A, issue a Code of Practice for the purpose of –”; 
 
(b) in paragraph (b) of subsection (8), by deleting the words “Assets Sharing 
Fund of the Agency” and substituting the words “Financial Investigation 
Agency Asset Fund”; and 
 
(c) by deleting subsection (8A). 
 
7. 
Section 27A of the principal Act is amended in subsection (2), by deleting the 
words “not more than 14 members” and substituting the words “not more than 16 
members”. 
 
Section 28 
8. 
Section 28 of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) in subsection (2), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” wherever they 
appear in the opening paragraph and substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
Section 27A 
amended. 
7 
 
(b) in subsection (3) (c), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(c) in subsection (4), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(d) in subsection (5) –  
 
(i) 
in the opening paragraph, by deleting the words “Steering Committee” 
wherever they appear and substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(ii) 
in paragraph (a), by inserting after the word “any”, the word “other”; 
 
(e) in subsection (5A), by deleting the words “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word “Agency”;  and 
 
(f) in subsection (8A), by deleting the words “the Steering Committee or”. 
 
Section 29 
9. 
Section 29 of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) in subsection (5), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” wherever they 
appear in the opening paragraph and substituting the word “Agency”;  
 
(b) in subsection (6) –   
 
(i) 
in the opening paragraph, by deleting the words “Steering Committee” 
and substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(ii) 
in paragraph (a), by inserting after the word “any”, the word “other”;  
 
(c) in subsection (6A), by deleting the words “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word “Agency”;  
 
(d) in subsection (9), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(e) in subsection (10), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; and 
 
(f) in subsection (12), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”. 
 
10. 
Section 30 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (3B) by deleting the 
words “the Steering Committee or””. 
 
Section 30A 
11. 
Section 30A of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
Section 30 
amended. 
8 
 
(a) in subsection (1) (c), by deleting the words “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; and 
 
(b) in subsection (4), by deleting the words “Steering Committee” in the opening 
paragraph and substituting the word “Agency”. 
 
Section 31 
12. 
Section 31 of the principal Act is amended –   
amended.  
(a) in subsection (1) (a), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”; 
 
(b) in subsection (2) (a) by deleting the words “Steering Committee” and 
substituting the word “Agency”;  
 
(c) by repealing subsection (7);  
 
(d) by repealing subsection (8); and 
 
(e) in subsection (10), by deleting the words “Reporting Authority” and 
substituting the word “Agency”. 
 
Section 34B 
13. 
Section 34B of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) in subsection (2), by deleting the words “, the Steering Committee”; and 
 
(b) in subsection (4) (b), by deleting the words “, the Steering Committee”. 
 
Section 37A 
14. 
Section 37A of the principal Act is amended –  
amended. 
(a) in subsection (1) (b) by deleting the words “section 6 of the Customs 
Ordinance” and substituting the words “section 4 (1) of the Customs 
Management and Duties Act, 2010”; and 
 
(b) by deleting subsection (2) and substituting the following subsection –  
 
“(2) 
A police officer or customs officer may seize and detain any cash 
which –  
 
(a) is found in the Territory, or 
 
(b) is being imported into or exported from the Territory if its 
amount is not less than $10,000, 
 
 
and he or she has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the cash – 
 
9 
 
(i) 
is intended by any person for use in criminal 
conduct; or 
 
(ii) 
directly or indirectly represents any person’s 
proceeds of criminal conduct.”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Passed by the House of Assembly this 11th day of May, 2021. 
 
 
(Sgd.) Julian Willock, 
Speaker. 
 
 
 
 
(Sgd.) Phyllis Evans, 
                                                                               Clerk of the House of Assembly. 
 
