 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
PROGRESS REPORT 
ON THE 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS 
FROM THE NATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT 
2 
 
ABBREVIATIONS 
 
AGC  
 
- 
Attorney General’s Chambers 
AML/CFT 
 
- 
Anti-money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism 
ASP 
 
 
- 
Airport Security Programme 
BVIAA 
 
- 
BVI Airports Authority 
BVIPA 
 
- 
BVI Ports Authority 
CAs 
 
 
- 
Competent Authorities 
CDD  
 
- 
Customer Due Diligence 
CJ(IC)A 
 
- 
Criminal Justice (International Cooperation) Act 
CLEA  
 
- 
Committee of Law Enforcement Agencies 
DNFBP 
 
- 
Designated Non-financial Businesses and Professionals 
DTOA  
 
- 
Drug Trafficking Offences Act 
FATF  
 
- 
Financial Action Task Force 
FI 
 
 
- 
Financial Institutions 
FIA 
 
 
- 
Financial Investigation Agency 
FSC 
 
 
- 
Financial Services Commission 
GO 
 
 
- 
Governor’s Office 
HMC  
 
- 
Her Majesty’s Customs 
HVG  
 
- 
High Value Goods Dealers 
ID 
 
 
- 
Immigration Department 
LEAs  
 
- 
Law Enforcement Agencies 
MC 
 
 
- 
Magistrate’s Court 
3 
 
ML 
 
 
- 
Money Laundering 
MLA  
 
- 
Mutual Legal Assistance 
MoU  
 
- 
Memorandum of Understanding 
NRA  
 
- 
National Risk Assessment 
NPO  
 
- 
Non-profit Organisations 
ODPP  
 
- 
Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions 
OECS  
 
- 
Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States 
PCCA  
 
- 
Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act 
PF 
 
 
- 
Proliferation Financing 
RVIPF  
 
- 
Royal Virgin Islands Police Force 
SAR/STR 
 
- 
Suspicious Transaction Report/Suspicious Activity Report 
TF 
 
 
- 
Terrorist Financing 
USVI  
 
- 
United States Virgin Islands 
4 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Introduction ……………………………………………………………...…….….  
5 
Improvements in AML/CFT Regime since NRA .................................. 
6 
Review of Agencies ………………………………………..…………….. ……… 
7 
 
Governor’s Office ………………………………..………….………. 
 
7 
 
Attorney General’s Chambers ………………….…………..…….. ……… 
7 
Financial Investigations Agency …..….…………………………………  
8 
Financial Services Commission ………………..………………… ……… 
8 
Magistrate’s Court ……………………………………………….. ……… 
9 
Immigration Department ……………………………………….. ……… 
9 
Her Majesty’s Customs ………………………………………….. ……… 
10 
Royal Virgin Islands Police Force ………………………………. ……… 
10 
Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions …………….……. ……… 
11 
BVI Ports Authority ………………………………………….…. ……… 
11 
BVI Airports Authority ………………………………………… ……… 
12 
Conclusion ………………………….…………………………..……….……. 
. 
13 
 
 
 
5 
 
Introduction 
Recommendation 1 of the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) International Standards on 
Combating Money laundering and the Financing of Terrorism & Proliferation sets out that 
countries should identify, assess and understand money laundering (“ML”) and terrorist 
financing (“TF”) risks.  It has been determined that the most practical way this work can be 
carried out is by way of a national risk assessment.   
On Wednesday, 12th March, 2014, the Cabinet of the Virgin Islands approved the outline for 
the Territory’s first National Risk Assessment (NRA) which commenced in September, 2014, 
and lasted two years, concluding in 2016.  This NRA was aimed at assessing the ML/TF/PF 
risks to the Virgin Islands in order to enable the targeted application of a risk-based approach 
to AML/CFT.  It was determined that the successful conduct of an NRA would help the 
Territory to identify and assess its ML/TF risks, and that the results of the NRA should 
provide a clear picture as to which sectors are most vulnerable to ML/TF.   
The NRA was geared towards determining where resources should be allocated based on the 
level of identified risk, and provided the opportunity to identify required changes to the 
current AML/CFT regime.  The period of assessment covered 2011 to 2014 inclusive and 
identified threats and vulnerabilities for a range of agencies and sectors including all of the 
Territory’s CAs and its identified Law Enforcement (or enforcement related) Agencies, 
which are the focus of this report.  With respect to the other sectors, i.e. the FIs, DNFBPs, 
NPOs and HVGs, the responsibility for ensuring that the recommendations identified in the 
NRA report are being implemented lies with the relevant regulators.   
In general, it was found that the CAs are carrying out their respective functions at an 
appreciable level.  Areas that require addressing included resources and expertise, the 
appropriate collection of statistical data in order to be able to assess effectiveness, their 
handling of Mutual Legal Assistance and other international cooperation requests, and their 
overall compliance with international standards.  With respect to the LEAs, it was found that 
much room exists for these agencies to improve their staffing resources, staff training and 
understanding of ML/TF, as well as their overall ML/TF law enforcement capability. The 
LEAs could also benefit from having and adhering to policies against political and other 
interference and improve their inter-agency cooperation and handling of ML/TF 
investigations. 
 
6 
 
 
Emanating from the assessment was the need to establish a National Risk Assessment 
Implementation Unit (“the Unit”) to undertake and ensure effective implementation of the 
recommendations contained in the NRA Report.   
This Unit was established in March 2017 and has been given the responsibility to follow up 
on the implementation of all recommendations noted in the 2016 NRA Report relative to the 
Government and quasi-government agencies, and to ensure the Territory’s readiness to 
undergo its Fourth Round Mutual Evaluation by the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force. 
Since completion of the NRA exercise the agencies assessed have been striving towards 
addressing their deficiencies through the development of Action Plans outlining how they 
intend to do so.  These Action Plans were required to be submitted to the Unit, and updated 
on a periodic basis.  The Unit has used these Action Plans as a measure to track the progress 
of each agency.  In addition, the Unit conducted on-site reviews to determine the level and 
effectiveness of implementation of the relevant recommendations, and whether each agency 
had effectively addressed its risks.  These reviews were scheduled to be completed by 
September 2017.  Unfortunately, due to the passage of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 
September, 2017 there was some delay in completing these reviews prior to December 2017.  
 
Improvements in AML/CFT Regime since NRA 
The Virgin Islands has made notable progress in implementing the recommendations of the 
NRA and improving the effectiveness of its AML/CFT regime to combat ML, TF and related 
financial crimes. Progress has been made across relevant agencies and specifically the CAs 
and LEAs. The Implementation Unit has worked alongside each agency to identify and 
determine progress, and such progress has been verified by the Unit. This report provides a 
synopsis of the most significant improvements to date since the finalisation of the NRA 
Report. The findings of the Unit should be read as an addendum to the British Virgin Islands: 
National Risk Assessment of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Report of 3 July, 
2017.    
 
 
7 
 
Review of Agencies 
 
1. 
Governor’s Office 
Risks identified, including inadequate recordkeeping, staff training in AML/CFT, and 
security breaches, have been substantially addressed by the Governor’s Office (GO).  
Updated Standard Operating Procedures for matters of Extradition, MLA, issuing of Licences 
for persons wishing to conduct business for, or on behalf of a listed person who is subject to 
sanctions, and publication of Sanctions Orders have been developed and implemented.  
These measures have helped to streamline processes, provide proper guidance, reduce 
timeframes and increase efficiency for dealing with such matters. All of the issues with 
regard to security highlighted in the NRA Report have been fully addressed. Furthermore, 
staff have received additional AML/CFT training.  
 
2. 
Attorney General’s Chambers (AGC) 
The AGC has developed a Standard Operating Procedural Manual for processing both MLA 
and extradition requests. Additionally, an action plan, including a proposal for an electronic 
database of extradition records and the creation of an MLA Unit has been developed and will 
be implemented.  This Plan would become the structure for successfully implementing an 
effective ML/TF/PF control system within the AGC.  Once implemented this will help to 
streamline the relevant processes and provide a guide for proper administration of these 
matters.  
In terms of improving the AGC’s ability to assist with MLA requests, subsidiary legislation 
was passed to remove specific designations of countries in the DTOA, PCCA, and CJ(IC)A.  
These amendments allow AGC to provide assistance to a wider range of countries. With 
respect to security and confidentiality, the issues highlighted in the NRA Report have been 
fully addressed including improvements to the electronic records system.  This has provided 
greater security and efficiency in the handling of records within the AGC. 
 
 
8 
 
 
3. 
Financial Investigation Agency (FIA) 
The FIA continues to focus on its primary responsibilities of receiving, analysing and 
investigating SARs/STRs; and the supervision of the NPO and DNFBP sectors.  Increased 
registrations have been noted in relation to supervised entities, and additional compliance 
inspections. Collaborative public awareness training with respect to the quality of SAR 
filings has also been conducted by the FIA for Money Services Businesses and the Bankers 
Association.   
The FIA has fulfilled the FATF requirements and Egmont rules in relation to information 
security by ensuring that there is a distinct physical separation between its Compliance Unit 
and its Financial Investigations Unit which is responsible for the processing of SARs/STRs.  It 
has also bolstered its Financial Investigations Unit by increasing the number of analysts 
assigned to receive and analyse SARs/STRs.  This should aid in reducing the current response 
time. Additionally, Guidance Notes on SAR/STR reporting have been produced to assist FIs 
and DNFBPs in understanding how to properly file SARs/STRs. This should further increase 
the quality of SARs/STRs and provide better information to the FIA from which it can 
produce intelligence reports that lead to prosecutions and convictions. 
In terms of its supervisory responsibilities, the FIA has developed an NPO and DNFBP 
Procedures and Assessment Guide which now serves as its risk assessment framework 
manual for supervised entities. Draft Guidance Notes on AML/CFT compliance for DNFBPs 
and NPOs have also been developed and are in the process of being implemented.  These 
Guidance Notes would help the entities under the FIA’s supervisory charge to better 
understand their obligations with respect to AML/CFT. 
 
4. 
Financial Services Commission (FSC) 
The FSC has conducted a benchmarking exercise against the FATF Recommendations and 
Methodology in an effort to ensure that the AML/CFT regime fully satisfies the 
Recommendations, and where necessary changes will be made. The FSC is developing 
relevant amendments to satisfy any identified shortcomings with a view to making legislative 
changes by year’s end.   
 
9 
 
In relation to its supervisory responsibilities, the FSC’s Risk Based Approach to Supervision 
document was approved by its Board on January 10, 2017.  This document outlines how to 
risk assess the entities the FSC supervises.  The Risk Based Framework allows the FSC to take 
a more targeted approach to supervision and to improve its effectiveness as a supervisor.  The 
FSC has also allocated more staff to compliance inspections and enforcement matters. Hence, 
statistics showed improvement in the time taken to conduct compliance inspections. 
 
With respect to enforcement, the FSC has put measures in place to sanction its licensees for 
non-compliance with CDD and other AML/CFT related measures.  This includes a process of 
escalating penalties for infractions based on severity, which is in line with international 
standards. Penalties range from simple warnings to monetary penalties and later to 
revocation of approvals.  The FSC has also done a comprehensive assessment of the 
effectiveness and impact of administrative penalties imposed. This is geared towards ensuring 
that the penalties are proportionate and dissuasive. 
 
 
5. 
Magistrate’s Court (MC) 
The Magistrate’s Court has developed an action plan and has taken steps to address 
deficiencies. Of significant importance is the overarching effort to address its human 
resource needs by conducting a human resource needs assessment. Once this assessment has 
been agreed and the recommendations implemented the MC should see significant increases 
in efficiency. In the interim, the MC has proactively attempted to increase its court reporting 
staff through internal transfer of staff from the High Court where appropriate.  It is hoped 
that this will assist in reducing the time taken to produce transcripts of court proceedings.  
In relation to proper records management, including electronic data management, 
accessibility, security and timely updating of records, a new system was installed at the OECS 
courts system headquarters in St. Lucia which the MC is connected to that addresses most 
vulnerabilities in the current records management system.  This system should help to 
facilitate the proper and more efficient tracking and management of all court records. 
 
6. 
Immigration Department (ID) 
Understanding its role in the fight against ML, TF and other related crimes including 
smuggling of migrants, human trafficking and border protection, the ID has conducted a full 
human resources assessment to determine optimal staffing levels, and is taking steps to fill 
the identified gaps in its human resources.  
10 
 
The ID has also been able to demonstrate a greater level of effective implementation of its 
AML/CFT obligations through greater use of inter-agency agreements (MoUs), including a 
shiprider agreement with USVI counterparts and with RVIPF.  These agreements have 
allowed for greater effectiveness in border protection as the ID has been involved in various 
joint operations with other LEAs.  
The ID has made strides in improving its records management systems, and its 2017 strategic 
plan included improvements to both administrative filing and procedures, and processing of 
immigration applications and procedures.  An Office Procedures Manual has also been 
produced to provide clear guidance on how to carry out the various functions within the 
Department.  These improvements should bring about greater efficiency within the ID. 
 
7. 
Her Majesty’s Customs (HMC) 
HMC is primarily concerned with contraband smuggling, smuggling of migrants, and illegal 
movement of cash.  HMC has developed a cash declaration and seizure policy for dealing 
with incoming and outgoing passengers once undeclared cash is detected. A "Bulk Cash 
Movement" log records both incoming and outgoing passengers found traveling with bulk 
cash.  HMC also maintains a Report of International Transportation of Currency and 
Monetary Instruments.   
HMC continues to be proactive in cooperating with other agencies and has signed various 
MOUs with other LEAs.  HMC is a member of the Committee of Law Enforcement Agencies 
(CLEA), which has been established to assist law enforcement agencies in overcoming 
challenges faced in their interrelated functions.   
 
8. 
Royal Virgin Islands Police Force (RVIPF) 
The RVIPF is primarily concerned with monitoring and investigating all crimes, including 
predicate offences to ML, as well as ML, TF and PF related crimes.  Cooperation, both locally 
and internationally is key to the RVIPF being able to execute its mandate.   
The RVIPF has developed an action plan with established timelines to address the 
deficiencies and implement changes. However, the challenges faced by the RVIPF were 
compounded by the devastation caused by the 2017 Hurricanes which caused a number of 
11 
 
their priorities to shift.  Since that time their focus has been on ensuring predicate offences 
are adequately identified and arrests made.  This in itself has been identified by the RVIPF as 
the first step in pursuing ML convictions.  The RVIPF’s action plan continues to be 
implemented as demonstrated by it being able to develop procedures for cash seizures, which 
should help to ensure the proper handling and processing of cash as evidence, and which 
would ensure transparency and prosecutions.   
 
9. 
Office of the Director of Prosecutions (ODPP) 
The ODPP plays a pivotal role in the prosecution of persons charged with predicate offences 
and those offences related to ML/TF.  The ODPP has developed an action plan and has 
demonstrated progress in addressing its deficiencies.  For example, the ODPP, in consultation 
with the RVIPF, has implemented a “vetting form” which outlines the broad areas that the 
RVIPF should take into account when filing charges to ensure that all proper procedures are 
followed.  This form is used to assist the ODPP in ensuring proper charges are filed and 
sufficient evidence is in place to allow for a greater probability of securing a conviction.  This 
process should also ensure that charges are more quickly and appropriately brought which 
should lead to an increased rate of satisfactory prosecutions.  
The ODPP has also developed internal procedures relating to staff training including the 
need to involve other law enforcement agencies. In that regard, the ODPP has engaged in 
internal training and has involved the RVIPF in training sessions relative to case file 
preparation. Additionally, the DPP currently chairs the Committee of Law Enforcement 
Agencies (CLEA), which has been established to assist law enforcement agencies in 
overcoming challenges faced in their interrelated functions including investigations, 
prosecutions and convictions for money laundering, terrorism financing and related financial 
crimes.  The meetings have proved to be a useful medium to ensure cooperation amongst 
local LEAs. 
 
10. 
BVI Ports Authority (BVIPA) 
BVIPA is primarily concerned with contraband smuggling, smuggling of migrants, and illegal 
movement of cash. The BVIPA has always been intensely security driven.  Its membership in 
regional organisations which specialize in providing industry best practice, coupled with 
12 
 
sufficient monitoring by these organisations, has assisted the BVIPA’s positive security 
posture, and as a result safety measures have been greatly enhanced.  These organisations 
have also assisted in the review and testing of policies and procedures of port security.   
Additionally, the BVIPA’s Operational Manual is being finalised. The BVIPA has also made 
progress in setting up internal structures to address various vulnerabilities, including the 
development of a risk rating system for security breaches, as well as providing various 
training sessions for staff. 
  
11. 
BVI Airports Authority (BVIAA) 
BVIAA has implemented measures which have improved its physical security. A number of 
procedures have also been developed and implemented to assist the BVIAA in implementing 
its mandate. These procedures includes an Airport Security Program Manual, (“ASP”), which 
includes procedures of how breaches should be handled, including referring where necessary 
to the appropriate LEA.  Additionally, procedures have been drafted for the detecting of 
prohibited items, but this is still a work in progress. 
Inter-agency cooperation between BVIAA and other LEAs is vital to successfully detect and 
prosecute ML/TF related matters. Such cooperation has been enhanced in part with the 
creation of committees for inter-agency cooperation and the signing of various MOU 
between agencies.  
 
 
 
13 
 
Conclusion 
The Virgin Islands continues to make progress on the implementation of the 
recommendations of the NRA Report with a view to addressing all of the identified 
deficiencies before its scheduled Mutual Evaluation. Progress of these agencies’ ability to 
implement the recommendations and address their identified deficiencies will continue to be 
monitored by the Unit.  This monitoring will include a focused assessment of each agency to 
determine how well they have each implemented their relevant recommendations. Upon 
completion of this assessment the Unit will generate a further report on the Virgin Islands’ 
progress, the status of the implementations in respect of each agency, and the level of 
effectiveness of each agency.  This should culminate in an updated NRA for the Virgin 
Islands.   
 
 
 
 
