Home / PublicaƟons / High-risk and other monitored jurisdicƟons / Public Statement - October 2019
Public Statement -
October 2019
Paris, 18 October 2019 - The Financial AcƟon Task Force (FATF) is the global standard-seƫng body for anƟ-money laundering
and combaƟng the ﬁnancing of terrorism (AML/CFT). In order to protect the internaƟonal ﬁnancial system from money
laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism (ML/FT) risks and to encourage greater compliance with the AML/CFT standards, the
FATF idenƟﬁes jurisdicƟons that have strategic deﬁciencies and works with them to address those deﬁciencies that pose a risk
to the internaƟonal ﬁnancial system.
JurisdicƟon subject to a FATF call on its members and other jurisdicƟons to apply counter-
measures to protect the internaƟonal ﬁnancial system from the ongoing and substanƟal
money laundering and  ﬁnancing of terrorism (ML/FT) risks.
DemocraƟc People's Republic of Korea (DPRK)
The FATF remains concerned by the DPRK’s failure to address the signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in its anƟ-money laundering and
combaƟng the ﬁnancing of terrorism (AML/CFT) regime and the serious threats they pose to the integrity of the internaƟonal
ﬁnancial system. The FATF urges the DPRK to immediately and meaningfully address its AML/CFT deﬁciencies. Further, the
FATF has serious concerns with the threat posed by the DPRK’s illicit acƟviƟes related to the proliferaƟon of weapons of mass
destrucƟon (WMDs) and its ﬁnancing
The FATF reaﬃrms its 25 February 2011 call on its members and urges all jurisdicƟons to advise their ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons to
give special aƩenƟon to business relaƟonships and transacƟons with the DPRK, including DPRK companies, ﬁnancial
insƟtuƟons, and those acƟng on their behalf. In addiƟon to enhanced scruƟny, the FATF further calls on its members and
urges all jurisdicƟons to apply eﬀecƟve counter-measures, and targeted ﬁnancial sancƟons in accordance with applicable
United NaƟons Security Council ResoluƟons, to protect their ﬁnancial sectors from money laundering, ﬁnancing of terrorism
and WMD proliferaƟon ﬁnancing (ML/FT/PF) risks emanaƟng from the DPRK. JurisdicƟons should take necessary measures to
close exisƟng branches, subsidiaries and representaƟve oﬃces of DPRK banks within their territories and terminate
correspondent relaƟonships with DPRK banks, where required by relevant UNSC resoluƟons.
JurisdicƟon subject to a FATF call on its members and other jurisdicƟons to
apply, in line with RecommendaƟon 19: 1) increased supervisory examinaƟon
for branches and subsidiaries of ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons based in Iran; 2) enhanced
relevant reporƟng mechanisms or systemaƟc reporƟng of ﬁnancial transacƟons;
and 3) increased external audit requirements for ﬁnancial groups with respect
to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran.
Iran
In June 2016, the FATF welcomed Iran’s high-level poliƟcal commitment to address its strategic AML/CFT deﬁciencies, and its
decision to seek technical assistance in the implementaƟon of the AcƟon Plan.
In November 2017, Iran established a cash declaraƟon regime. In August 2018, Iran has enacted amendments to its Counter-
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
https://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-juri...
1 of 2
Terrorist Financing Act and in January 2019, Iran has also enacted amendments to its AnƟ-Money Laundering Act. The FATF
recognises the progress of these legislaƟve eﬀorts. The bills to raƟfy the Palermo and Terrorist Financing ConvenƟons have
passed Parliament, but are not yet in force.  As with any country, the FATF can only consider fully enacted legislaƟon. Once the
remaining legislaƟon comes fully into force, the FATF will review this alongside the enacted legislaƟon to determine whether
the measures contained therein address Iran’s AcƟon Plan, in line with the FATF standards.
Iran’s acƟon plan expired in January 2018. In October 2019, the FATF noted that there are sƟll items not completed and Iran
should fully address: (1) adequately criminalizing terrorist ﬁnancing, including by removing the exempƟon for designated
groups “aƩempƟng to end foreign occupaƟon, colonialism and racism”; (2) idenƟfying and freezing terrorist assets in line with
the relevant United NaƟons Security Council resoluƟons; (3) ensuring an adequate and enforceable customer due diligence
regime; (4) clarifying that the submission of STRs for aƩempted TF-related transacƟons are covered under Iran’s legal
framework; (5) demonstraƟng how authoriƟes are idenƟfying and sancƟoning unlicensed money/value transfer service
providers; (6) raƟfying and implemenƟng the Palermo and TF ConvenƟons and clarifying the capability to provide mutual legal
assistance; and (7) ensuring that ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons verify that wire transfers contain complete originator and beneﬁciary
informaƟon.
The FATF decided in June 2019 to call upon its members and urge all jurisdicƟons to require increased supervisory examinaƟon
for branches and subsidiaries of ﬁnancial insƟtuƟons based in Iran. In line with the June 2019 Public Statement, the FATF
decided this week to call upon its members and urge all jurisdicƟons to introduce enhanced relevant reporƟng mechanisms or
systemaƟc reporƟng of ﬁnancial transacƟons; and require increased external audit requirements for ﬁnancial groups with
respect to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in Iran.
If before February 2020, Iran does not enact the Palermo and Terrorist Financing ConvenƟons in line with the FATF Standards,
then the FATF will fully liŌ the suspension of counter-measures and call on its members and urge all jurisdicƟons to apply
eﬀecƟve counter-measures, in line with recommendaƟon 19 .
While acknowledging that Iran has recently adopted the AML-CFT bylaw, which the FATF has not yet reviewed, the FATF
expresses its disappointment that the AcƟon Plan remains outstanding. The FATF expects Iran to proceed swiŌly in the reform
path to ensure that it addresses all of the remaining items by compleƟng and implemenƟng the necessary AML/CFT reforms.
Iran will remain on the FATF Public Statement unƟl the full AcƟon Plan has been completed. UnƟl Iran implements the
measures required to address the deﬁciencies idenƟﬁed with respect to countering terrorism-ﬁnancing in the AcƟon Plan, the
FATF will remain concerned with the terrorist ﬁnancing risk emanaƟng from Iran and the threat this poses to the internaƟonal
ﬁnancial system. The FATF, therefore, calls on its members and urges all jurisdicƟons to conƟnue to advise their ﬁnancial
insƟtuƟons to apply enhanced due diligence with respect to business relaƟonships and transacƟons with natural and legal
persons from Iran, consistent with FATF RecommendaƟon 19, including: (1) obtaining informaƟon on the reasons for intended
transacƟons; and (2) conducƟng enhanced monitoring of business relaƟonships, by increasing the number and Ɵming of
controls applied, and selecƟng paƩerns of transacƟons that need further examinaƟon.
Countries should be able to apply appropriate countermeasures when called upon to do so by the FATF. Countries should also be able to apply
countermeasures independently of any call by the FATF to do so. Such countermeasures should be eﬀecƟve and proporƟonate to the risks.
The InterpretaƟve Note to RecommendaƟon 19 speciﬁes examples of the countermeasures that could be undertaken by countries.
1
1
Documents - Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
https://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/high-risk-and-other-monitored-juri...
2 of 2
