Red Flags
for 
Suspicious Transactions
or
Suspicious Activities
1Q. Where can a reporting entity look to find indicators/red flags
of suspicious transactions or activities? 
A. Section 56 and Schedule 3 of the Anti-Money Laundering &
Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, 2008. 
2Q. What is a red flag related to a customer's profile or
behaviour? 
A. Where there is great reluctance by the customer to provide the
information that is requested. 
3Q. What is a red flag related to financial transactions? 
A. Where a client uses a means of payment that is unusual, such
as making too many cash payments with small denominations or
making payments in a foreign exchange that is used infrequently. 
4Q. What is a red flag related to the real estate sector? 
A. Where a client does not want to put his/her name on any
document that would connect them to the property or uses
different names on closing documents and deposit receipts.  
5Q. What is a red flag related to dealers in precious metals and
stones/Jewellers? 
A. Where a customer purchases a very high-priced piece of
jewelry or precious metal with cash only. 
6Q. What is a red flag related to Non-Profit Organisations? 
A. Where the donor's donation does not match the donor's known
source of funds and wealth.
7Q. What is a red flag related to Legal Practitioners? 
A. Where there is an absence of documentation to support the
client's story, previous transactions or company activities. 
8Q. What is a red flag related to Accountants? 
A. Where there are unauthorised or improperly recorded
transactions or inadequate paper trails. 
9Q. Does the mere presence of a red flag(s) indicate reasonable
grounds to suspect money laundering/terrorist
financing/proliferation financing activity? 
A. Not necessarily. If there are red flags present during a
transaction or series of transactions, then a business, entity or
organisation should apply closer scrutiny to the transaction or
series of transactions. 
(284) 852-3200
info@fiabvi.vg
P.O. Box 4090 | Road Town, Tortola |
 VG1110 | British Virgin Islands
Suspicious Transactions & Activities FAQs
