VIRGIN ISLANDS 
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND TERRORIST FINANCING 
(AMENDMENT) CODE OF PRACTICE, 2024 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
SECTION 
 
1. 
Citation and commencement 
 
2. 
Explanation to section 13 amended 
 
3. 
Section 16 amended 
 
4. 
Explanation to section 16 amended 
 
5. 
Section 31B amended 
 
6. 
Section 53A amended 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
VIRGIN ISLANDS 
STATUTORY INSTRUMENT 2024 NO. 45 
PROCEEDS OF CRIMINAL CONDUCT ACT 
(REVISED EDITION 2020) 
 
Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Code of 
Practice, 2024 
 
[Gazetted 10th September, 2024] 
 
The Financial Services Commission, pursuant to the powers conferred by section 
27(1) of the Proceeds of Criminal Conduct Act, Revised Edition 2020, and after 
consultation with the Joint Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 
Advisory Committee, amends the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist 
Financing Code of Practice, Revised Edition 2020. 
Citation and commencement 
1.  (1) This Code may be cited as the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist 
Financing (Amendment) Code of Practice, 2024. 
(2)  This Code shall come into force on the date that the Anti-money 
Laundering (Amendment) Regulations, 2024 comes into operation.  
Explanation to section 13 amended 
2. The Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Code of Practice, 
Revised Edition 2020 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal Code of 
Practice”), is amended in the Explanation to section 13 in paragraph (vi) by 
deleting the words “section 34(7)” and substituting the words “section 34(8)”.  
Section 16 amended 
3. The principal Code of Practice is amended in section 16(3) by  
(a) deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (c); and 
(b) revoking paragraph (d) and substituting the following paragraphs 
“(d)  notify the Agency or the Commission, as the case may be, 
in writing no later than 14 days after its Reporting Officer 
ceases to act as such; and 
  (e)  submit an application to the Agency or the Commission, as 
the case may be, for the appointment of a new Reporting 
Officer within 21 days after the date the Reporting Officer 
ceased to hold such office, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-money Laundering Regulations.” 
 
3 
 
Explanation to section 16 amended 
4. The principal Code of Practice is amended in the Explanation to section 
16 by revoking paragraph (viii) and substituting the following paragraph 
 
“(viii) Where an entity has three or less employees, the entity may 
apply for an individual appointed as a director (or equivalent position) 
or other senior officer of the entity to be appointed as Reporting 
Officer. Similarly, where a relevant person is a professional, he or she 
may apply to be appointed as Reporting Officer. In either case, it must 
be demonstrated that the individual to be appointed is appropriately 
qualified in accordance with the AMLR and can effectively carry out all 
the functions of a Reporting Officer in addition to his or her 
responsibilities as director (or equivalent position) or other senior 
officer of the entity or as the professional. Where an individual 
approved to be appointed in such circumstances determines that he or 
she is unable to effectively perform his or her statutory functions as 
Reporting Officer, he or she must immediately inform the Agency or 
Commission, as the case may be. Following an assessment by the 
Agency or Commission, the entity or professional may be required to 
seek to appoint another person as the entity’s or professional’s 
Reporting Officer.”.  
Section 31B amended 
5. The principal Code of Practice is amended in section 31B by 
(a) renumbering the second referenced subsection (3) as subsection 
(4); and  
(b) renumbering the existing subsection (4) as subsection (5). 
Section 53A amended 
6. The principal Code of Practice is amended in section 53A(1) by revoking 
paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph 
“(a) policies, procedures and controls required under Part II 
(Establishing Internal Systems and Controls), Part III 
(Effecting Customer Due Diligence Measures), Part VI 
(Record Keeping Requirements) and Part VII (Employee 
Training), including those relating to 
(i) 
the compliance function and review programme and 
designation of an individual at senior management level 
for managing compliance, in accordance with section 
11(3)(c) and (d); 
(ii) assessment of the competency and probity of employees 
at the time of recruitment and on an on-going basis, in 
accordance with section 49(1); 
(iii) providing appropriate and periodic training and ongoing 
employee training, in accordance with sections 11(3)(o) 
and 47; and  
 
4 
 
(iv) an independent audit function that is adequately 
resourced to test compliance, in accordance with section 
11(3A)(b);”. 
 
 
 
Issued by the Financial Services Commission on the 9th day of September, 2024. 
 
 
 
 
(Sgd.) Kenneth Baker 
Managing Director/CEO 
Financial Services Commission 
