
SUSPICIOUS
TRANSACTION 
REPORTING
1Q. Who should file the suspicious transaction report with the
Financial Investigation Agency?
A. The Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) of the
supervised or regulated entity, business or organisation should file.
Outside of this, any person who, during their course of trade,
business, profession, business or employment who has reasonable
grounds to suspect that a person is engaged in money
laundering/terrorist financing/proliferation financing activity should
file. 
2Q. What are the types of disclosures to choose from on the STR
form when making a filing with the Financial Investigation Agency? 
A. There are three types of disclosures to choose from: (1) Initial
Report (2) Supplemental Report (3) Correction Report. 
3Q. When should the initial report option on the STR form be
selected? 
A. The initial report option should be selected if a report is being
filed on the person/entity for the first time.  
4Q. When should the supplemental report option on the STR form
be selected? 
A. The supplemental report option should be selected if a report was
previously filed, and another suspicious activity or suspicious
transaction occurs with the same person /entity of interest.  
5Q. When should the correction report option on the STR form be
selected? 
A. The correction report option should be selected if a previously
filed report is being corrected or altered.  
6Q. What should the information in the suspicious transaction
report set out?  
A. The information should clearly and concisely set out the basis for
knowledge of money laundering, terrorist financing or any other
types of financial crimes.  
7Q. Can supporting documentation that the reporting entity
considers beneficial for the filing of the suspicious transaction
report be submitted with the STR form?   
A. Yes, this is encouraged because it will assist the FIA in better
analysing the suspicious transaction report. There is a section on the
FIA's STR form for "Additional Notes" where the supporting
information/documentation can be included.   
8Q. Will a reporting entity be held liable for filing a suspicious
transaction report with the FIA? 
A. No, a reporting entity will not be held liable. This protection even
extends to information provided voluntarily to the FIA due to
suspicions of financial crimes, such as money laundering.    
9Q. Is it an offence if I know or suspect that someone is engaged in
criminal activity like money laundering, but I don't file a STR with
the FIA?
A. Yes, it is an offence if the person knows, suspects or has
reasonable grounds for knowing or suspecting that the person is
engaged in such an activity but chooses not to disclose such
information via a suspicious transaction report with the FIA.     
10Q.What is the penalty for failing to comply with the suspicious
transaction reporting obligations? 
A. Penalties can be criminal or administrative. If a fine is imposed as
a criminal penalty, the amount can range from $150,000 to $500,00.
The length of time for imprisonment ranges from three years to five
years. 
If a fine is imposed as an administrative penalty, the amount for
failure to comply with the suspicious transaction reporting
obligations is $70,000.
(284) 852-3200
P.O. Box 4090 | Road Town, Tortola|
VG1110 | British Virgin Islands
info@fiabvi.vg
