NATIONAL MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORIST 
FINANCING AND PROLIFERATION FINANCING 
RISK ASSESSMENT OF LEGAL PERSONS AND 
LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS - 2025 
                                                                    
 
 
 
     
 
 
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 
 
 
 
 
 
1 | P a g e  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) recommends that countries carry out a risk 
assessment of the legal persons and legal arrangements connected with their 
jurisdiction, either on its own or part of a national risk assessment. FATF 
Recommendation 24, as amended in March 2022, requires countries to carry out 
a risk assessment of the risk of misuse of legal persons for money laundering or 
terrorist financing, and take measures to prevent their misuse.  Recommendation 
25 requires countries to carry out a risk assessment of trusts and other legal 
arrangements governed by the law in their country or administered by a trustee in 
their country. In addition, FATF Immediate Outcome 5 seeks to understand how 
well the relevant competent authorities in a country identify, assess and 
understand the vulnerabilities, and the extent to which legal persons created in 
the country can be, or are being misused for ML/TF. Finally, R. 1 requires countries 
to carry out an assessment of national risks, which includes risks of Legal 
Arrangements.   
2. The Interpretative Note to Recommendation 24 states that countries should: “(a) 
assess the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with 
different types of legal persons created in the country, and take appropriate steps 
to manage and mitigate the risks that they identify; and (b) assess the money 
laundering and terrorist financing risks to which their country is exposed, 
associated with different types of foreign-created legal persons, and take 
appropriate steps to manage and mitigate the risks that they identify.”  
3. The Interpretative Note to Recommendation 25 states: “Countries should assess 
the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with different types 
of trusts and other similar legal arrangements: (a) governed under their law;  (b) 
which are administered in their country or for which the trustee or equivalent 
resides in their country; and (c) types of foreign legal arrangements that have 
sufficient links with their country and take appropriate steps to manage and 
mitigate the risks that they identify.” 
4. The risk assessment of legal persons and legal arrangements aims to satisfy the 
provisions of FATF Recommendations 1, 24, 25 and Immediate Outcome 5.   
2. BACKGROUND 
5. The Virgin Islands (VI) is committed to combatting money laundering (ML), 
terrorism financing (TF), proliferation financing (PF) and the evasion of targeted 
financial sanctions. As part of this mandate, the VI seeks to ensure that it 
understands its exposures to financial crime, and particularly how legal persons 
and legal arrangements can be misused to commit financial crime, given the VI’s 
position as one of the world’s leading financial centers.  
2 | P a g e  
 
6. The VI therefore carried out this risk assessment to identify the risks posed to legal 
persons and legal arrangements, enhance the granularity of its understanding of 
those risks in order to ensure that the VI as well as entities operating in and from 
the VI adopt appropriate measures to mitigate the ML, TF, PF and sanctions 
evasions risk relating to VI legal persons and legal arrangements.  
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES 
7. The understanding of the risk of legal persons and legal arrangements is a 
fundamental cross-cutting issue in the VI MER, affecting the risk understanding of 
Financial Institutions (FIs) and Designated Non-financial Businesses and 
Professionals’ (DNFBPs) clients, the number and quality of suspicious activity 
reports filed by these FIs and DNFBPs, the Financial Investigation Agency’s 
access to intelligence relating to legal persons and legal arrangements, the 
number of investigations carried out as well as the number of prosecutions.  
8. The main objective of this risk assessment is to assess the risk exposures of legal 
persons and legal arrangements established in or operating in the VI to ML, TF and 
PF in order to (1) deepen the understanding of the risks posed by those entities 
amongst the regulated sector and the public sector agencies; and (2) implement 
appropriate mitigating measures.  
9.  Particularly, the Risk Assessment sought to:  
a. Consider typologies relating to the misuse of legal persons and legal 
arrangements 
b. Assess the identified ML, TF and PF Risks of the legal persons and legal 
arrangements connected to the VI  
c. Propose mitigating measures that may be required to control the risk 
 
4. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS 
10. In the VI, the Financial Services Commission (FSC) is responsible for authorising 
and supervising Trust and Company Services Providers (TCSPs) for compliance 
with AML/CFT/CPF requirements. All legal persons registered in the VI must have 
a registered office in the VI and appoint a registered agent, who must be licensed 
by the FSC. At the date of this report, there were 104 entities authorised to provide 
registered office and registered agent services. 
11. The role of the registered agent is to interact with the FSC relating to the affairs of 
the legal person and to assess the beneficial owners of any legal person it retains 
as a client. They also pay required fees and file the required annual returns on 
behalf of legal persons. Registered agents must also maintain the following 
documents for the legal persons they act for: 
a. memorandum and articles of association; 
b. register of directors (or a copy); 
3 | P a g e  
 
c. register of shareholders (or a copy); 
d. register of charges (if any);  
e. the company’s records and underlying documentation ;  
f. copies of all notices or other documents filed by the company with the BVI 
Registrar of Corporate Affairs (the Registrar) in the previous 10 years; and 
g. minutes of all meetings and all written resolutions of its shareholders and 
directors.  
12. The FSC also houses the Registry of Corporate Affairs (ROCA), which is 
responsible for maintaining the register of basic and beneficial information 
relating to legal persons.  
13. The Virtual Integrated Registry and Regulatory General Information Network 
(VIRRGIN) system is the IT system that holds all information required to be 
maintained by the ROCA, including basic information relating to legal persons. 
The information housed in VIRRGIN is publicly available. The requirements for 
maintaining beneficial ownership information have been passed into law and, as 
at the date of this report, are being implemented. Bearer shares have been 
prohibited since 2022. 
14. In relation to legal arrangements, corporate trustees and trustees operating as a 
business must be licensed as TCSPs under the Banks and Trust Companies Act. 
These persons and entities are supervised by the FSC. As at the date of this report, 
there were 124 trustees licensed by the FSC.    
15. There is no special tax treatment for any type of legal person or arrangement in the 
VI and there are no secrecy laws.  
 
5. WORKING METHODS 
16. A working group was formed on March 28, 2024 to carry out the assessment of the 
ML, TF and proliferation risks of legal persons and legal arrangements.  
17. The working group was composed of representatives from the following public 
sector agencies and was led by an expert from an international compliance 
consulting firm: 
a. Royal Virgin Islands Police Force – Financial Crimes Unit (FCU) 
b. FSC (financial supervision and corporate registry) 
c. Ministry of Financial Services, Economic Development and Digital 
Transformation 
d. Attorney General Chambers – Sanctions Unit and International Cooperation 
Unit 
e. Governor’s Office (relating to sanctions implementation) 
f. Financial Investigation Agency (Analysis and Investigation, and Supervision 
and Enforcement Units) 
g. Non-Profit Organisations Board 
18. Two focus group consultations were held with private sector members: one with 
representatives from the TCSP sector and one with the accounting and legal 
sectors. The TCSP group met in person while the latter group received 
4 | P a g e  
 
questionnaires to be completed. The questions asked in the focus group are 
attached as Appendix A hereto. Views of the private sector on areas of risk related 
to legal persons and legal arrangements in the VI are provided throughout this 
report where relevant.  
19. The risk assessment was guided by a written methodology that was developed 
specifically for the risk assessment of legal persons and legal arrangements in the 
VI. This methodology is available as a separate document.  
20. The methodology, following on the FATF Guidance on National Money Laundering 
and Terrorist Financing Risk Assessments, views risk as a function of threats1, 
vulnerabilities2, controls and consequences.  
21. Scores for each of the threats, vulnerabilities, controls and consequences were 
calculated for each of ML, TF and PF. A final score was then arrived at for each 
type of legal person and legal arrangement in the VI.  
22. In addition, lists of high risk jurisdictions for each of ML, TF and PF were compiled 
using publicly available information which included FATF grey and black lists, 
results of FATF mutual evaluations, indexes produced by international 
organizations, including the corruption perceptions index and the global terrorism 
index, and countries featuring in case studies and typologies relating to the 
misuse of legal persons and legal arrangements. The relevant list of high risk 
jurisdictions was used as applicable to assess the vulnerabilities of VI legal 
persons and legal arrangements to ML, TF and PF3 due to their connections to 
these high risk jurisdictions.  
23. The data used for the risk assessment covered the period 2020 to Q1 2024 unless 
otherwise stated. 
 
6. INFORMATION SOURCES 
24. The working group considered a large quantity of documents and information 
sources to devise the methodology to carry out this risk assessment, obtain data 
and analyze the data. The sources of information that were used are listed in 
Appendix B.  
 
7. OVERVIEW OF TYPES OF LEGAL PERSONS AND 
LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS IN THE VI 
 
1 The FATF defines threat as “a person or group of people, object or activity with the potential to cause 
harm to, for example, the state, society, the economy.”  
2 The FATF defines a vulnerability as “things that may be exploited by the threat, or that may facilitate its 
activities.” 
3 In relation to Proliferation Financing, the Working Group opted for an expanded definition of high risk 
jurisdiction, which included not only the countries of Primary Concern, namely Iran and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, but also countries that are listed in reports and literature as being 
sympathetic or neighbouring to those countries.  
5 | P a g e  
 
25. Prior to commencing the assessment of the ML, TF and PF risks in the corporate 
sector, the VI carried out a mapping exercise that summarized the numbers and 
main characteristics of the different types of legal persons and legal 
arrangements in the VI. The current numbers and trends relating to legal persons 
in the VI are shown in Table 1. The types of VI legal persons and legal arrangements 
are described below the table.  
Table 1 – Types and Numbers of Legal Persons in the Virgin Islands 
Entity Type 
2020 
2021 
2022 
2023 2024        
(As of 
30 
March) 
5-Year Trend 
(Increasing, 
Decreasing or 
Stable) 
BVIBC - Limited by 
Shares 
342,716 351,266 348,913 340,794 350,491 Relatively stable 
BVIBC - Limited by 
Guarantee  
268 
277 
302 
284 
299 Relatively stable 
Unlimited 
Company  
235 
246 
251 
236 
240 Relatively Stable 
Segregated 
Portfolio 
Company 
97 
101 
117 
121 
122 Increasing 
Restricted 
Purpose 
Company 
19 
22 
12 
15 
17 Relatively stable 
Private Trust 
Company (PTCs) 
1080 
1141 
1130 
1085 
1106 Relatively stable 
Foreign Company 
56 
53 
55 
56 
55 Relatively Stable 
Limited 
Partnership 
1077 
1642 
1902 
2042 
2086 Increasing 
International 
Partnership 
13 
13 
13 
13 
13 Stable 
Partnership 
without Legal 
Personality  
375 
855 
1118 
1227 
1270 Increasing 
 
BVIBCs 
26. BVIBCs are by far the largest sub-set of all legal persons and legal arrangements 
types in the VI. There are 5 possible types of BVIBCs: 
• 
a company limited by shares; 
• 
a company limited by guarantee that is not authorised to issue shares; 
• 
a company limited by guarantee that is authorised to issue shares; 
6 | P a g e  
 
• 
an unlimited company that is not authorised to issue shares; 
• 
an unlimited company that is authorised to issue shares. 
27. BVIBCs limited by shares represent approximately 99% of all BVIBCs.  
28. BVIBCs have full capacity to carry on or undertake any business activity and may 
enter into any type of transaction. BVIBCs are also empowered to issue and hold 
shares, including treasury shares and conduct financial transactions. In the VI, 
there is no distinction between a company established to operate in or from within 
the VI. 
29. A BVIBC must maintain a registered office and registered agent within the VI at all 
times. The registered office and the registered agent must be regulated and 
supervised by the FSC. A BVIBC must also maintain at the office of its registered 
agent, the memorandum and articles of the company, the register of members, 
the register of directors and copies of all notices and documents filed by the 
company. The company itself is required to keep records of its transactions, and 
of its financial position. 
Segregated Portfolio Company (SPC) 
30. A segregated portfolio company is a BVIBC, subject to the same obligations as for 
BVIBCs described above. A segregated portfolio company allows for the creation 
of separate accounts in the SPC, each recording its own assets and liabilities but 
without having separate legal personality from the SPC. The BVIBC Act imposes 
some restrictions on the type of business that can be carried out by an SPC. A 
BVIBC can be an SPC if it is (or proposed to be) a licensed insurer under the 
Insurance Act, a professional or private fund or registered as a public fund under 
SIBA, or a company that is not licensed as an investment business company, an 
insurance manager or insurance intermediary or to carry on any activity that is 
regulated under the BTCA, CMA or FMSA. 
Restricted Purpose Company  
31. A restricted purpose company is a BVIBC limited by shares, that is registered on 
its incorporation or continuation into the VI, as having restricted purposes. The 
company is otherwise known as a special purpose vehicle and must carry “SPV” 
in its name to identify itself as such. It is subject to the same obligations and 
requirements as BVIBCs generally.  
Foreign Company 
32. A foreign company is a legal person that is incorporated, formed or registered 
outside of the VI. The ROCA maintains a Register of Foreign Companies. Foreign 
companies must appoint a registered agent licensed by the FSC and maintain a 
registered office at which the Register of Members and Register of Directors must 
be kept.  
Private Trust Company (PTC)  
7 | P a g e  
 
33. A private trust company is a trust company where each beneficiary is a connected 
person in relation to the settlor of the trust, or a charity. PTCs are exempt from the 
requirement to obtain a trust license under the Banks and Trust Companies Act if 
the trust business consists solely of unremunerated trust business or related 
trust business.  The Registered Agent of a PTC must hold a full trust license under 
the Banks and Trust Companies Act. The Registered Agent must also ensure that 
up to date copies of the trust deed and any documents creating or evidencing a 
trust are maintained at its office.  
Limited Partnership 
34. A limited partnership must have at least one general partner and one limited 
partner. Limited partnerships must have a written limited partnership agreement 
that provides for the rights and obligations of the partners. The agreement may 
also provide for the affairs of the limited partnership and the conduct of its 
business and activities. The limited partnership generally has legal personality, 
unless it is registered as being without legal personality. Limited partnerships 
must be registered with ROCA.  
35. A limited partnership must always maintain a registered office and registered 
agent within the VI. As with BVIBCs, the registered agent must be licensed as a 
TCSP and supervised by the FSC. General partners are required to maintain at the 
registered office, a register of general partners and a register of limited partners, 
or a record of the address of where such registers are maintained. The limited 
partnership is also required to keep financial records and any other underlying 
documentation of the limited partnership. 
International Partnership 
36. As with Limited Partnerships, International Partnerships must have one general 
partner and at least one limited partner. International partnerships have the same 
features and obligations as limited partnerships, with the exception that 
international partnerships cannot carry on business with persons resident in the 
VI or own an interest in real property, except a business office lease.  
Partnership without Legal Personality 
37. As stated above, a Limited Partnership generally has legal personality unless it is 
registered as a Partnership without Legal Personality. The declaration signed by 
each general partner stating that the partnership does not have legal personality 
is binding and irrevocable. This type of partnership must have at least one general 
partner and one limited partner and must at all times have a registered office and 
registered agent in the VI. These partnerships cannot carry on banking business, 
insurance business, trust business or company management business unless 
exempt. These partnerships are subject to the same registration and ongoing 
record keeping requirements as limited partnerships.  
Virgin Islands Special Trust (VISTA) 
8 | P a g e  
 
38. A VISTA trust is used purely for the holding of shares in a BVIBC. The trust assets, 
therefore, must be shares in a BVI company, which must be transferred into the 
name of the trustee. 
39. In establishing a VISTA trust, at least one of the trustees must be a designated 
trustee, which under the VISTA Act can be either a VI licensed TCSP or a VI Private 
Trust Company.  
40. VISTA trusts are commonly used for people with family-owned businesses 
(especially for a sole director/shareholder) who wish to run their company 
independently as well as benefit from a trust's estate planning ability, and for 
holding trust assets that are invested in what the trustees would traditionally 
consider high-risk investments. 
Express Trusts 
41. The most common type of trust formed in the VI is the Express Trust. General 
requirements for trusts are detailed in the Trustee Ordinance, which provides for 
the duties and powers of trustees. Trusts themselves are not required to be 
registered but professional trustees in the VI must be licensed and supervised by 
the FSC. 
Non-Profit Organisations 
42. As at August 2024, there were 121 non-profit organisations registered in the VI and 
all but 4 of these organisations meet the FATF definition of a non-profit 
organisation. In 2024, the VI carried out an assessment of the TF risk of the non-
profit organisation sector in the VI. The VI concluded that, due to the small size of 
the sector and the lack of international links in the sector, the terrorism financing 
risk for the sector is low. Given the small size of the sector and the low risk 
identified in the 2024 TF Risk Assessment in the non-profit organisation sector, 
non-profit organisations will not be assessed separately as a sector in this report.  
 
8. Threats 
43. The threat assessment consists of two steps:  
1) an assessment of typologies relating to the misuse of legal persons and legal 
arrangements for ML, TF or PF, which demonstrates the potential risk; and 
 2) an analysis of actual cases in the VI relating to the misuse of legal persons and 
legal arrangements, which demonstrates crystallized risk.  
44. The data on cases was provided by law enforcement agencies for the past five 
years, including the numbers of:  
(i) 
suspicious activity reports (SARs);  
(ii) 
Mutual Legal Assistance (MLA) requests sent/received;  
(iii) 
criminal investigations; and  
(iv) 
asset confiscation, seizure and forfeiture.  
9 | P a g e  
 
45. It should be noted that the number of prosecutions is not being considered, as no 
prosecutions of legal persons took place in the relevant period. The lack of 
prosecutions of legal persons or prosecutions relating to legal arrangements, the 
low numbers of SARs resulting in intelligence used for investigatory purposes and 
criminal investigations in the case of the VI are not seen as an indication of a low 
threat but rather, it is acknowledged that these could have been influenced by a 
number of factors, including inadequate resources and FIA procedures existing at 
the time which provided that the FIA would only disseminate SARs relating to local 
companies to the FCU and, in the case of SARs related to international activities 
of a BVI legal person, the FIA procedures provided that these should be 
disseminated internationally. This has been factored into the assessment of 
number of SARs and number of investigations, under the assumption that there 
would have been a greater number of SARs analysed relating to legal persons and 
legal arrangements leading to investigations if those impediments had not existed. 
There have also been no cases of confiscation or asset deprivation relating to 
legal persons or arrangements in the past 5 years.  
46. A separate threat score was calculated for ML, TF and PF on a scale of low, 
medium low, medium high and high.  
47. The threat score is a combination of the typologies score, weighted at 60% and 
the law enforcement data, weighted at 40%. The law enforcement data is 
weighted at a discount given the challenges faced by law enforcement agencies, 
described above.  
 
Practitioners Perspectives – Risks in VI Legal Persons and Arrangements 
The Working Group conducted focus group interviews with practitioners based in the 
VI in the fields of trust and corporate services, law and accounting. Practitioners 
mentioned that the VI, as a financial service jurisdiction with a high volume of 
incorporated companies, may be exposed to fraud, corruption and criminal activities 
due to the misuse of VI legal persons and arrangements.  
Practitioners mentioned that the risks for ML are high for legal persons that are part 
of complex structures and cross-border transactions. PF risk was also seen by some 
as a potential risk due to the large volume of companies in the jurisdiction.  The risk 
for TF was seen as lower, as participants saw fewer links between the VI and TF 
activities.  
A. Money Laundering  
i. Assessment of Typologies 
48. Fifteen recent cases were found during an open source search relating to ML 
involving BVIBCs. Most of the cases involve allegations of corruption against a 
non-VI politically exposed person. The other cases involve predicates of fraud and 
10 | P a g e  
 
tax evasion.  In three cases, the BVIBC owned real estate in London, United 
Kingdom, allegedly purchased with proceeds of crime. In all cases but one, the 
BVIBC was part of an international structure. In two cases, the BVIBC that is 
alleged to have been misused was beneficially owned by a relative or an employee 
of the politically exposed person. In four cases, the BVIBC was part of a trust 
structure.  
49. The beneficial owners of the companies come from a wide range of countries, 
including Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Uzbekistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia, UK, India, 
Uruguay, the United States and Denmark. Some of the cases involve more than 
one BVIBC.   
50. Two cases of ML via limited partnerships were also uncovered. These cases 
involved VI LPs misused in international corruption schemes. In most cases 
examined, the general partner and limited partner in these LPs was also a 
partnership or company, making it difficult to ascertain who was the true 
beneficial owner (BO). These cases involved schemes involving Estonia, Latvia, 
Russia and Uzbekistan, the latter two being high risk jurisdictions for ML. 
51. Two cases were also found relating to the misuse of VI trust structures by 
politically exposed persons for purposes of ML. The predicate offences in those 
cases were fraud, corruption and embezzlement. Two other recent cases were 
found involving the misuse of a trust as part of a ML scheme in jurisdictions that 
have similar characteristics to the VI.  
52. As such, the threat rating from the typologies review exercise suggests a high 
threat level for misuse of BVIBCs by money launderers, a medium high risk rating 
for legal arrangements and a medium low rating for other types of legal persons.  
Case Study 1 – Misuse of Limited Partnerships to conceal International Money 
Laundering involving VI companies 
 
The president of Country 1 and other politically exposed persons in Country 1 
registered four legal persons in Country 2: two limited partnerships and two limited 
liability partnerships. The legal persons had bank accounts in a bank in Country 3.   
 
The two limited partnerships were registered to a Mail Boxes Etc. shop in Country 2. 
However, the bank accounts showed that their address was in Country 1. The 
partners of the two LPs were 2 companies incorporated in the VI.  
 
The beneficial owner of the two limited partnerships was listed as being a driver in 
Country 1. The LP’s’ bank accounts handled more than $1.7 billion in transfers.  
   
In total, approximately $2.9 billion thought to be proceeds of corruption flowed from 
Country 1 through bank accounts in Country 3 to purchase luxury goods and to 
lobby politicians.   
 
11 | P a g e  
 
This case illustrates how politically exposed persons, complex corporate structures 
and the geographical separation of the beneficial owners, companies, ultimate 
beneficial owners and bank accounts can facilitate the crime of money laundering.  
 
Case Study 2 – Money Laundering via a Trust 
A politically exposed person in country 1 was convicted of fraud, embezzlement and 
money laundering. Investigators identified funds derived from the person’s scheme, 
which had moved through a network of companies in various jurisdictions. Some of 
the funds were used to purchase expensive property in country 2 via a company set 
up in the VI. This property was later transferred into a trust set up in the VI.  
 
ii. Assessment of Law Enforcement Data 
SARs Filed and International FIU to FIU Requests 
53. The FIA provided data on the number of SARs filed between 2020 and 2024 relating 
to ML involving legal persons and legal arrangements. Table 2 shows the total 
number of SARs received for various types of legal persons and arrangements.   
54. The FIA’s data capture processes at the time did not distinguish between the 
different subtypes of BVIBCs. However, given the minuscule proportion of BVIBCs 
other than companies limited by shares, the lack of distinction is not material for 
the purpose of the threats assessment. Similarly, the FIA data does not 
distinguish between VISTA trusts and other types of trusts but this is also not 
relevant given the very small number of SARs filed in relation to trusts.  
 Table 2 – ML SARs relating to Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements 
 
2020 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
BVIBCs received 
118 
46 
25  
17 
6 
VA SARs4 received (TOTAL) 
N/A5 
N/A 
861 
1678 
491 
VA SARs which had a nexus and 
indirectly or directly identified a 
subject involving a VI legal person or 
arrangement 
N/A 
N/A 
3 
0 
0 
Partnerships 
0  
0 
0 
0 
0 
Trusts 
2  
1  
2 
2  
0  
NPOs 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
PTC 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
SPC 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
55. Overall, the level of SARs involving legal persons is significant. The majority of the 
SARs received were received from a BVIBC and the subject of the SAR was not a 
VI legal person or arrangement. Given the VI’s reputation as a jurisdiction for 
company incorporation, this result is not unexpected.    
 
4 A VA SAR is a SAR filed by a VASP, which in this case relates to a BVIBC 
5 The VA SAR log was created in 2022 
12 | P a g e  
 
56. The FIA also provided data relating to outgoing international requests relating to 
ML and legal persons and legal arrangements made to financial intelligence units 
in other jurisdictions. In 2023, the FIA made 4 outgoing requests relating to 
potential ML by legal persons and legal arrangements, and in 2024, 15 such 
outgoing requests were made.  
 
Investigations 
57. The RVIPF provided data relating to the number of ML investigations between 2020 
and 2024 relating to legal persons and legal arrangements. These data are 
provided in Table 3. 
58. The only investigations opened between 2020 and 2024 that related to legal 
persons and legal arrangements related to BVIBCs.  There were no investigations 
into foreign companies, trusts or other types of legal persons.  
Table 3 – ML Investigations relating to Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements 
 
2020 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
BVIBCs 
0 
0 
3 
1 
2 
Other LPLA 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Mutual Legal Assistance Requests between 2020 and 2024 
59. Between 2020 and 2024, a total of 301 mutual legal assistance requests were 
received for information related to ML and BVIBCs. Of these, 55 requests 
originated from third countries, with one specifically concerning a non-VISTA trust. 
During the same period, five outgoing requests were issued concerning three 
BVIBCs. No additional requests were made in relation to other types of legal 
persons or legal arrangements. 
Case Study 3 – Mutual Legal Assistance Request 
The request involved the investigation of allegations of bribery and corruption concerning 
a company (“Company X”) and its former and current employees and advisers in relation 
to its commercial business. 
An overseas company released a Request for Proposal detailing its requirements for the 
purchase of a specified amount of Company X’s merchandise.  
Investigators believed that the overseas company took the decision to purchase the 
merchandise only after Company X agreed to pay an additional commission (millions) to 
close the deal to the exclusion of its competitor.  
The arrest and conviction of individuals in another jurisdiction led to the exposure of 
Company X’s involvement and culture of bribes for contract and other harmful 
competition practices. 
13 | P a g e  
 
Payment structures associated with the mentioned companies were linked to two BVI 
registered companies. 
i. Conclusion on ML Threat 
60. Law enforcement figures and the ML case studies relating to legal persons 
suggest a high ML threat level for BVIBCs in the VI. This conclusion stands even 
though there is no breakdown in the law enforcement data between the different 
types of BVIBCs or indeed between BVIBCs and other types of legal persons, given 
that BVIBCs represent the great majority of the types of legal persons in the VI. 
61. Law enforcement data, including SARs filed and mutual legal assistance requests 
received, show that other types of legal persons as well as legal arrangements 
may potentially be misused for ML purposes but this is more limited. Both law 
enforcement data and the review of cases show there are fewer cases of misuse 
of legal arrangements than of legal persons. This results in a medium low threat 
level for legal arrangements and medium low for other types of legal persons.  
Case Study 4 – Misuse of Companies to Launder the Proceeds of Corruption 
Company B was incorporated in the VI by the director of a government agency in Country 
2. The director was the sole beneficial owner of this BVIBC. The director failed to list the 
ownership of the BVIBC in his public declaration of business interests.   
The government agency of Country 2 issued a public procurement notice for the 
provision of machinery.   
 Company C was a holding company that owned Company D, which manufactured 
machinery. Company D, which was a joint venture between Company E and Company F, 
won the procurement contract.  
Two shell companies, in countries 3 and 4, were owned by Company F. The shell 
companies had bank accounts in multiple jurisdictions.   
When bidding for the procurement contract, Company F overpriced the machines.  The 
excess money was deposited into the bank accounts belonging to the shell companies. 
Fake contracts were created and provided to the bank to justify the bank transfers. The 
shell companies then sent two $500,000 payments to Company’s B bank account in 
Country 3. These payments were disguised as fictitious loans provided to Company B. 
The Director was subsequently indicted for corruption and money laundering.   
This case provides a typology on money laundering the proceeds of corruption through 
fictitious inter company transactions and loans.  
 
14 | P a g e  
 
B. Terrorist Financing  
i. Assessment of Typologies 
62. Open source typologies research uncovered seven cases involving suspected TF 
involving BVIBCs. The terrorist organizations represented included Hamas, ISIS, 
Hezbollah, Muslim Brotherhood and the Syrian regime. Moreover, three of these 
cases relate to the potential misuse of a BVIBC providing virtual asset services to 
facilitate TF. In two cases, the BVIBCs were part of a larger multinational 
corporate group, while in one case the BVIBC was a standalone entity. The 
number of suspected cases and the fact that different terrorist organisations are 
named suggests that BVIBCs may be misused by terrorist financiers.   
63. No typologies or cases were found relating to other types of legal persons or to 
legal arrangements.  
Case Study 5 – Misuse of Companies to Facilitate Terrorist Financing 
An individual resident in Country 1, a country known to support terrorism, operated 
several companies around the world in the real estate, food processing and diamond 
industries. The individual used the profit from his companies to purchase properties to 
be used by known terrorist organizations and to engage in trade based money laundering.  
The individual incorporated a BVIBC, which shared a name and was a subsidiary of a 
company in Country 1, as part of the worldwide corporate structure to facilitate the 
transfer of funds to the terrorist organization. The individual became designated under a 
counter-terrorism targeted financial sanctions regime.  
However, the individual’s name did not appear on the ownership records for the VI entity. 
This example shows how terrorist financiers and designated persons seek to obscure the 
beneficial ownership of legal persons and obscure the flow of funds through complex 
multi-national corporate structures.   
ii. Assessment of Law Enforcement Data 
Suspicious Activity Reports 
64. Between 2020 and 2024, the FIA received 13 TF SARs relating to BVIBCs and all 
the TF SARs that involved a legal person or arrangement related to a BVIBC (and 
not another type of legal person or arrangement). The FIA disseminated 17 SARs 
relating to TF connected to BVIBCs to the FCU6. 12 of the 17 SARs disseminated 
were filed by a BVIBC that was carrying out activities involving virtual assets. The 
subject of 1 of the SARS was a BVIBC which involved TF.  
 
6 More disseminations were made than SARs received because following an initial analysis of certain 
SARs, additional disseminations were made to the FCU on those SARs.  
15 | P a g e  
 
65. The FIA also provided data relating to outgoing international requests relating to 
TF and legal persons and legal arrangements made to overseas financial 
intelligence units. In 2023, the FIA made 11 outgoing requests relating to potential 
TF by VI legal persons and legal arrangements, and in 2024, 4 such outgoing 
requests were made.  In addition, the FIA received 2 international requests 
relating to TF and BVIBCs. Only one of those requests related to the misuse of 
cryptocurrencies. 
Investigations 
66. The RVIPF data indicates that 14 investigations were commenced between 2020 
and 2024 relating to TF involving legal persons and legal arrangements, including 
1 TFS investigations. These data are provided in Table 4. One of the 14 
investigations related to a suspected sanctions breach with a TF element, relating 
to one BVIBC. As with ML, the only investigations related to BVIBCs and there were 
no investigations involving other types of legal persons or arrangements.  
Table 4 – TF Investigations relating to Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements 
 
2020 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
BVIBCs 
0 
0 
3 
8 
3 
Other LPLA 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Mutual Legal Assistance Requests between 2020 and 2024 
67. Mutual legal assistance figures for requests received from third countries 
between 2020 and 2024 show 1 incoming request relating to terrorism and 1 
relating to TF involving BVIBCs. There were no other requests relating to any other 
types of legal persons and none for legal arrangements in relation to TF.   
Targeted Financial Sanctions for TF – Sanctions breaches between 2020 and 2024 
68. During the reporting period, the Governor’s Office was notified by a Competent 
Authority of the designation of a beneficial owner of 9 BVI Companies on the 
USA’s OFAC Sanctions List. The said sanctioned individual was said to be 
potentially linked to a terrorist organisation. The 9 BVI Companies associated with 
this designated person have not been sanctioned by any UK or the UN Sanctions 
Regimes. Investigations are ongoing in this matter. There were no similar 
notifications in relation to any other type of legal person or legal arrangement. 
i. Conclusion on TF Threat 
69. The number of SARs received, investigations commenced, and information 
received by the Governor’s office shows that terrorist financiers are attempting to 
misuse BVIBCs for TF. This suggests a medium-high TF threat level for BVIBCs.  
16 | P a g e  
 
70. Conversely, in relation to other types of legal persons and legal arrangements, no 
cases were found when carrying out open source research that related to VI 
partnerships or legal arrangements being misused for TF purposes. In addition, 
no SARs, investigations or mutual legal assistance requests related to TF and 
other types of legal persons or legal arrangements from 2020 to 2024. This 
suggests a low threat level for TF in relation to other types of legal persons and 
legal arrangements.  
C. Proliferation Financing  
i. Assessment of Typologies 
71. Research revealed 15 cases between 2020 and 2024 of alleged proliferation or PF 
involving BVIBCs and the DPRK. All but one of these cases involved BVIBCs that 
were set up to own vessels that brought goods to the DPRK in contravention of 
international sanctions. In one case, a BVIBC was set up to conceal the flow of 
payment for goods between companies incorporated in other jurisdictions and a 
purchaser in the DPRK.  
72. In addition, two cases of PF were identified that related to Iran, whereby BVIBCs 
were set up as part of multi-jurisdictional complex structures that helped conceal 
the origin and destination of payments used to supply goods to Iran in 
contravention of international sanctions.  
73. No cases of PF were found that related to other types of legal persons or legal 
arrangements.  
ii. Assessment of Law Enforcement Data 
Suspicious Activity Reports 
74. The FIA received 5 SARs relating to PF and BVIBCs between 2020 and 2024 and 
made 14 disseminations to local law enforcement and foreign financial 
intelligence units7. Two of these SARs were filed by BVIBCs that were involved in 
virtual asset activities. There were no SARs relating to PF that involved legal 
persons or arrangements other than BVIBCs.  
75. In addition, the FIA made outgoing requests relating to PF and potential 
involvement of legal persons and legal arrangements to foreign financial 
intelligence units. In 2023, 1 such request was made and 4 requests were made 
in 2024.  
Case Study 6 – Transactions via a Designated Company 
 
7 Note: In two cases, a SAR related to more than 1 dissemination 
17 | P a g e  
 
In February 2017 information was obtained by the UN Panel of Experts showing that two 
sanctioned North Korean banks were operating in Country 1 through representative 
offices.   
A director of these offices simultaneously served as a director of a designated company, 
Company D, registered in the VI. Company D shared several officers with the 
representative offices, and when the bank's correspondent accounts were closed, 
Company D was set up to undertake wire transfers and business transactions on its 
behalf.   
The representative in Country 1 undertook transactions in US Dollars, using the account 
of Company D, with single transactions occasionally exceeding the $1 million mark. He 
also facilitated payments and loans between companies linked to the representative 
offices and exchanged large quantities of bulk cash into US Dollar notes of higher 
denomination.  
 
Investigations 
 
76. Table 5 shows the number of investigations that were commenced by the FCU 
between 2020 and 2024 relating to PF and involving a BVIBC. There were no cases 
involving other types of legal persons or arrangements.  
 
Table 5 – PF Investigations relating to Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements 
 
2020 
2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
BVIBCs 
0 
0 
2 
1 
0 
Other LPLA 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Mutual Legal Assistance Requests between 2020 and 2024 
77. In the period 2020 to 2024, the Attorney General’s Chambers received no 
incoming requests for mutual legal assistance for information on any legal person 
or legal arrangement relating to PF.  
Targeted Financial Sanctions for PF – Sanctions notifications between 2020 and 2024 
78. Between 2020 and 2024, the Governor's Office received 6 requests from the UN 
Panel of Experts (established pursuant to United Nations Security Council 
resolution 1874 (2009)) in relation to 50 BVIBCs incorporated in the VI, as a part of 
their investigations into suspected PF violations.  In some cases, it is alleged that 
these companies own vessels that illegally supply goods to the DPRK. The UN 
Panel of Expert Reports published between 2020 and 2024 relating to the DPRK 
18 | P a g e  
 
identify companies incorporated in the VI that own vessels that ship materials to 
the DPRK in contravention of international sanctions8.  
Case Study 7 – Ownership of a Vessel by a Company 
 
Company K was listed as the registered owner of an oil tanker that was suspected of 
smuggling fuel to North Korea.   
 
In 2019, ownership and management of the oil tanker were transferred to two 
companies registered in the VI.  The address of these companies was the same 
address as another company that has been known to engage in fuel and cigarette 
smuggling to North Korea. 
   
On 29 May 2020, as soon as the oil tanker crossed the boundary between South Korea 
and North Korea, the vessel made a sharp left turn toward North Korea’s east coast. 
The vessel maintained this heading for five hours before its AIS signal apparently 
disappeared for over six days. When the AIS signal reappeared on 5 June 2020, the 
vessel was sailing south toward the Korea Strait.  
 
iii. 
Conclusion on PF Threat 
79. There are a number of cases identified in open source research that implicate 
BVIBCs with sanctions evasion activities, particularly with respect to the DPRK. 
While the number of SARs relating to PF is not large relative to ML, the number of 
PF SARs in the VI is high due to the fact that PF is more difficult to detect. In the VI, 
data from law enforcement agencies and the Governor’s Office provides evidence 
that BVIBCs are susceptible to abuse in PF networks. The threat level for BVIBCs 
in the VI relating to PF is therefore high.  
80. In relation to other types of legal persons and legal arrangements, no cases were 
found when carrying out open source research that suggested that these entities 
are being misused for PF purposes. In addition, there were no SARs, investigations 
or mutual legal assistance requests related to PF and other types of legal persons 
and to legal arrangements from 2020 to 2024 in the VI. This suggests a low threat 
level for PF relating to other types of legal persons and to legal arrangements. 
E. Conclusions on Threats 
81. The threat level for ML and PF is high, and TF threat is medium high, for BVIBCs. 
The threat level for ML for legal arrangements is medium high and for other types 
of legal persons it is medium low. In relation to TF and PF, the threat level is low 
for legal arrangements and all types of legal persons except for BVIBCs.  
 
8 See for example the March 2021 Panel of Experts Report submitted pursuant to resolution 2515, which 
identified four VI registered companies that own vessels.  
19 | P a g e  
 
Figure 1 – Summary of Threats Assessment 
 
ML= 
TF 
PF 
BVIBCs 
High 
Medium High 
High 
Other Legal Persons 
Medium Low 
Low 
Low 
Legal Arrangements 
Medium Low 
Low 
Low 
9. VULNERABILITIES 
82. The national vulnerability assessment consists of two elements:  
a. Assessment of the size and characteristics relating to the population of 
legal persons and arrangements in the VI; and 
b. Assessment of controls implemented by the private and public sectors 
to reduce the vulnerabilities.  
83. The assessment of size and characteristics is divided into four categories of 
indicators. Each indicator is scored on a scale of Low (1), Medium Low (2), 
Medium High (3) and High (4) in respect of each type of legal person or legal 
arrangement, for each of ML, TF and PF. Indicators in each group are averaged and 
then the scores between the different categories are again averaged.  
A. Legal Persons 
Size and Control Characteristics 
84. The table below presents the risk factors for each type of legal person formed in 
the VI, as well as foreign companies. BVIBCs limited by shares represent by far 
the largest portion of all legal persons formed in the jurisdiction. In addition, the 
number of BVIBCs limited per 1,000 residents is high compared to other types of 
legal persons. In addition, BVIBCs limited by shares have by far the highest 
number of corporate directors. Corporate directors pose a higher level of 
vulnerability, as they can be used to obscure the beneficial ownership or control 
of a legal person.  
 
Table 6 – Size and Ownership Characteristics – Locally formed 
Size 
and 
Ownership 
Indicators 
# per 1,000 
population 
Proportion of all types of 
LP 
% 
corporate 
directors 
BVIBC - Limited by Shares 
12,240 
99% 
21% 
BVIBC 
- 
Limited 
by 
Guarantee (shares) 
2.77 
0.022% 
0.01% 
BVIBC 
- 
Limited 
by 
Guarantee (non shares) 
7.9 
0.064% 
0.01% 
Unlimited Company  
8.1 
0.065% 
0.01% 
20 | P a g e  
 
Unlimited company (non 
shares) 
0.27 
0.0022% 
0.01% 
Segregated 
Portfolio 
Company 
4.33 
0.035% 
0.006% 
Restricted 
Purpose 
Company 
0.6 
0.0048% 
0.001% 
Private Trust Company 
38.4 
0.31% 
0.11% 
Limited Partnership 
80.97 
0.65% 
N/A 
International Partnership 
0.3 
0.003% 
N/A 
Partnership without Legal 
Personality  
32 
0.36% 
N/A 
 
85. Foreign companies represent only a very small percentage of the total number of 
legal persons in the jurisdiction, and there is a very small number of foreign 
companies per 1,000 VI residents. In addition, approximately 10% of foreign 
companies are incorporated in a jurisdiction that is high risk for ML, and none in a 
jurisdiction that is high risk for PF or TF. Most foreign companies are insurance 
companies. These companies do not have nominee arrangements and shareholding 
structures are known. Likewise, corporate directors are not used in the insurance 
sector. These characteristics lower the vulnerability rating of foreign companies.  
 
Table 7 – Size and Ownership Characteristics – Foreign Companies 
Size 
and 
Ownership 
Indicators 
# per 1,000 
population 
Proportion of 
all types of 
LP 
# foreign companies incorporated in high risk 
jurisdictions 
ML 
TF 
PF 
Foreign 
Companies 
0.133 
0.014% 
5 
0 
0 
 
86. No data is available yet about the extent to which each type of legal person listed 
in the tables above uses nominee shareholders. However, overall, there are 89 VI 
licensed TCSPs that provide nominee shareholder services for approximately 
1500 legal persons. It is possible that, in addition to VI TCSPs being nominee 
shareholders, nominee shareholder services are provided by foreign persons and 
entities which are not required to be licensed in the VI. However, they are not yet 
required to report nominee arrangements in the beneficial ownership registry. 
Their number is therefore unknown as at the date of this report, and this data gap 
increases the vulnerability score.   
87. Legal persons, including limited partnerships, can have bodies corporate as their 
directors or, in the case of partnerships, their partners. There is no data on the 
jurisdiction of these corporate directors. These features increase the potential for 
opacity and dissimulation of beneficial ownership and control, thereby increasing 
21 | P a g e  
 
the vulnerability of these legal persons to being misused for financial crime. This 
applies to all the legal persons listed in Table 6 above.  
88. There are 14,757 politically exposed persons who are a beneficial owner of a legal 
person. While this data is not broken out by type of legal person, this is not seen 
as a large data gap given that BVIBCs make up over 99% of all the legal persons in 
the VI. In addition, one politically exposed person can be a beneficial owner for 
more than one entity. As such, the data shows that approximately 4% of BVIBCs 
have a beneficial owner that is a politically exposed person. The typologies for ML 
discussed in the Threats section of this Risk Assessment indicate that the 
beneficial ownership by PEPs presents an elevated level of vulnerability. However, 
the percentage of BVIBCs beneficially owned by a PEP is small, which mitigates 
this exposure. The typologies did not show that PEPs increase the vulnerability of 
legal persons to PF or TF and as a result, the presence of PEPs does not increase 
the vulnerability in relation to these two financial crimes.  
89. The other risk factor for legal persons in the VI is the reliance on introducers by 
TCSPs when onboarding clients. Approximately 28% of legal persons are 
onboarded via eligible introducers, which is known to increase the risk of 
structures being misused for ML, TF and PF.  
 
Practitioners’ Perspectives – Introduced Business  
Practitioners who participated in the focus groups demonstrated a keen awareness 
of the risk in introduced business. Many stated that they do not accept introduced 
business without carrying out the full onboarding themselves. One firm stated that 
when it relies on introducers, those are only domestic introducers regulated for 
AML/CFT. One respondent firm relies on a network of approximately 1000 
introducers. However, the firm has implemented a sophisticated know-your-
introducer compliance framework, including testing and risk assessing. Most firms 
interviewed stated that they do not allow other firms to rely on them for customer due 
diligence (in other words, most firms interviewed indicated they would not act as an 
eligible introducer). Many practitioners also opined that the ability to rely on eligible 
introducers is being phased out due to enhanced obligations relating to beneficial 
ownership and customer due diligence. The conversation with the focus group shows 
that VI practitioners are less willing than previously to rely on introducers and when 
they do, they have increased their compliance to manage this risk.  
 
Business Characteristics 
90. Various business characteristics can make a legal person more or less vulnerable 
to misuse for ML, TF and PF.  
22 | P a g e  
 
Entities Regulated for AML/CFT/CPF 
91. Generally, entities that are regulated for AML/CFT/CPF are less likely to be 
deliberately misused for nefarious purposes, given their status as entities that are 
supervised by a competent authority. Except in the case of foreign companies, 
less than 4% of legal persons registered in the VI carry out business that requires 
supervision for AML/CFT/CPF purposes in the jurisdiction. However, almost two-
thirds of foreign companies carry out regulated business and as a result their 
vulnerability on this factor is low.   
92. Although PTCs are not required to be regulated, they are required to appoint a 
registered agent that holds a Class I Trust license. Moreover, PTCs can only carry 
out limited trust business. As PTCs are monitored by a licensed TCSP, PTCs are 
seen as having fewer risk exposures by their nature of business. 
Other High Risk Industries 
93. Three industries for which data is available are also more vulnerable to be 
misused for ML, TF and PF, as seen in the typologies examined in the threats 
sector. These three industries are mining, shipping (as it concerns PF) and VASPs.  
94. There are 1514 legal persons in the VI that have indicated that their nature of 
business is ownership of a vessel and approximately 1000 stated that the nature 
of their business is mining. In addition, 64 BVIBCs have applied to be licensed as 
a VASP by the FSC. While these are high risk activities, the number of such 
companies is very low. However, data gaps about the nature of business of legal 
persons remain, as the current list of nature of business in TCSPs’ annual return 
is very general, and requiring legal persons themselves to notify ROCA of their 
nature of business could yield more information. As  a result, legal persons, other 
than foreign companies and PTCs, score medium high on this factor for ML, TF 
and PF, while the score for foreign companies is low and medium low for PTCs.   
Cross-Border Links 
95. This group of indicators relate to having beneficial owners and directors in high 
risk jurisdictions. Data broken down by types of legal person was not available. 
96. In relation to beneficial owners, across all types of BVIBCs, 53% of BVIBCs have 
beneficial owners in a high risk jurisdiction for ML, 7% have beneficial owners in a 
high risk jurisdiction for TF and 33% have a beneficial owner in a country known to 
aid or facilitate proliferation in the high risk jurisdictions of primary concern for 
PF9 (but none in DPRK or Iran themselves).  
97. In terms of directorships, table 8 shows the percentage of directors of each type 
of BVIBC that are resident in a country that is a high risk jurisdiction for ML, TF and 
 
9 For the purpose of this assessment these jurisdictions were considered high risk jurisdictions for PF in 
addition to the FATF identified jurisdictions of Iran and DPRK. 
23 | P a g e  
 
PF. In relation to PF, statistics show that some directors are based in a country 
that is neighbouring or sympathetic to the countries of primary concern. However, 
no director is resident in a country of primary concern (i.e. Iran or North Korea).   
 
Table 8 – Foreign Directorships of BVIBCs 
 
ML 
TF 
PF 
Limited by Guarantee- Authorised to issue shares 
49% 
3.6% 
(Tier 
2 
countries) 
10% 
Limited by Guarantee – Not authorised to issue shares 36% 
1.8% Tier 1 
5% Tier 2 
27% 
Unlimited Company  
25% 
5% Tier 2 
23% 
Company Limited by Shares 
72% 
0.7% Tier 1 
7% Tier 2 
30% 
 
98. Data on the regions where VI legal persons operate is available in aggregate. 
However, data related to specific countries was not available. 
99. Given the data on BVIBCs on their cross-border links, as well as the lack of 
granular data on where BVIBCs operate, BVIBCs are rated as highly vulnerable to 
ML. The vulnerability to TF is medium low and the vulnerability for PF is medium 
high. The lack of data in relation to partnerships, while it may signal the need for 
an elevated vulnerability rating, has been considered against the size of the sector 
in proportion to all types of legal persons (less than 1%) and the use of 
partnerships to facilitate international trade. Based on these factors the cross-
border link vulnerability of partnerships for ML is considered medium high, while 
the vulnerability for TF and PF is medium low.  
Accessibility 
100. 
This risk category examines the following factors: 
a. Ease and speed of incorporation 
b. Costs of formation 
c. Costs and ongoing burden of company administration 
d. Operational flexibility 
e. Formation via a gatekeeper 
f. International promotion of the type of company 
101. 
The ease with which criminals can set up legal persons may increase the 
vulnerability to misuse of legal persons in a jurisdiction. In the VI, all types of legal 
persons can be incorporated within 24 hours. There are no onerous regulatory 
restrictions or requirements that legal persons must comply with at the time of 
incorporation, for example having minimum capital or having a VI resident 
director. Only PTCs have a more difficult set up process, as they must appoint a 
trust company as its registered agent. All legal persons are incorporated via a 
24 | P a g e  
 
TCSP. Moreover, all types of legal persons are advertised internationally. Given 
these features, all types of legal persons except PTCs are rated as highly 
vulnerable on this factor and PTCs are rated as Medium High.  
B. Legal Arrangements 
Size and Control Characteristics 
102. 
Express trusts in the VI represent over 86% of all trusts in the jurisdiction. 
Assets under management for all types of trusts is 13% of GDP, which is 
significant. This results in a medium high level of vulnerability for VISTA trusts and 
high vulnerability for express trusts for ML, TF and PF.  
Trust Features 
103. 
No data is collected in the VI about features of trusts, including where 
assets are located, the governing law of the trust, how many trusts formed in the 
jurisdiction are revocable, how many have flee clauses, where settlors have 
reserved powers or trusts that are part of international corporate structures, for 
example, situations where a VI trust is part of a group of legal persons and legal 
arrangements spanning two or more jurisdictions. Given the flexibility provided by 
trust arrangements and the private nature of those arrangements, trusts could be 
created with such features that would make it easier for a settlor to create a trust 
specifically to misuse the trust in a ML, TF or PF scheme. Given this lack of data, 
all VI legal arrangements are assessed as high on this vulnerability factor for ML. 
However, generally, the features of trusts do not make trusts attractive for PF or 
TF and as such trusts are assessed as not being vulnerable to PF or TF due to their 
potential characteristics.  
Cross-Border Exposures 
104. 
In relation to VISTA trusts, 16% of settlors are from a high risk jurisdiction 
for TF, 46% are from a high risk jurisdiction for ML and 22% are from a country 
known to aid or facilitate proliferation relating to the jurisdictions of primary 
concern.  
105. 
With regard to express trusts, 10% of settlors are from a high risk 
jurisdiction for TF, 39% are from a high risk jurisdiction for ML and 4% are from a 
country known to known to aid or facilitate proliferation relating to the 
jurisdictions of primary concern.   
106. 
The available data shows a high level vulnerability for ML for both express 
and VISTA trusts. Cross border exposures of VISTA trust reveal a high level of 
vulnerability to PF and TF, while express trusts have a medium low vulnerability 
for PF and medium high vulnerability for TF based on their geographical exposures.   
25 | P a g e  
 
Accessibility and Barriers to Entry 
107. 
Trusts are generally much more difficult and costly to set up than legal 
persons, especially BVIBCs, as they require significant involvement of lawyers in 
the set-up phase and ongoing administration by a trustee. However, trust 
structures offer significant flexibility in terms of control and direction and the VI is 
promoted internationally as a center for trust formation. For these reasons, the 
score on this risk factor is medium-low for ML. The score is low for TF and PF, given 
that typologies show limited use of trusts by terrorist financiers and persons 
involved in proliferation, and high barriers to entry are potentially another 
deterrent for this type of crime.   
C. Vulnerability and Likelihood Score 
108. 
Table 9 below summarizes the vulnerability ratings of each type of VI legal 
person and arrangement. The vulnerability rating is the average of the risk rating 
of each legal person and legal arrangement on the risk categories discussed 
above. In relation to the first factor above, namely size and control characteristics, 
the indicators relating to size were weighted at an increase compared to the other 
indicators in that group of indicators. This ensures that the large disparity in the 
sizes of the sub-sectors is taken into account, particularly the fact that BVIBCs 
limited by shares account for over 97% of all legal persons. The scores for the 
indicators in the other three categories were averaged. It is also important to note 
that where data for a particular indicator was not available, the maximum score 
was attributed to that indicator on the basis that the risk is unknown. As such, 
some vulnerability scores might be lower once the data gaps are remediated.  
109. 
The vulnerability is rated on a scale of Low, Medium Low, Medium High and 
High for each of ML, TF and PF.  The ratings are set on the parameters set out in 
the accompanying methodology.  
 
Table 9 – Vulnerability Scores for Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements 
ML 
PF 
TF 
BVIBC - Limited by Shares 
H 
MH 
MH 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (shares) 
MH 
MH 
MH 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (non shares) 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Unlimited Company  
MH 
MH 
MH 
Unlimited company (non shares) 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Segregated Portfolio Company 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Restricted Purpose Company 
MH 
MH 
MH 
26 | P a g e  
 
Private Trust Company 
MH 
MH 
ML 
Limited Partnership 
MH 
MH 
MH 
International Partnership 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Partnership without Legal Personality  
MH 
MH 
MH 
Foreign companies 
MH 
ML 
ML 
Vista Trusts 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Express Trusts 
H 
MH 
MH 
  
110. 
The likelihood score is the combination of threats and vulnerabilities. In 
order to arrive at the likelihood score, the vulnerability score for each type of legal 
person and legal arrangement (as shown in Table 9) has been grossed up by the 
threats score, as per the table below, up to a maximum of 4, which indicates high 
likelihood of misuse of legal persons and legal arrangements.  The likelihood 
scores for each type of legal person and legal arrangement are shown in Table 11.  
Table 10 – Amplification Factors 
Threats Score 
Amplification - % of vulnerability score 
Low 
0% 
Medium Low 
5% 
Medium High 
10% 
High  
25% 
 
Table 11 – Summary of Ratings of Threat and Vulnerability  
ML 
PF 
TF 
BVIBC - Limited by Shares 
H 
H 
H 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (shares) 
H 
H 
MH 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (non shares) 
H 
H 
MH 
Unlimited Company  
H 
H 
MH 
Unlimited company (non shares) 
H 
H 
MH 
Segregated Portfolio Company 
H 
H 
MH 
Restricted Purpose Company 
H 
H 
MH 
Private Trust Company 
MH 
ML 
ML 
Limited Partnership 
MH 
MH 
MH 
International Partnership 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Partnership without Legal Personality  
MH 
MH 
MH 
Foreign companies 
MH 
ML 
ML 
Vista Trusts 
H 
MH 
MH 
Express Trusts 
H 
MH 
MH 
27 | P a g e  
 
 
111. 
In sum, before the consideration of any controls or mitigants, all types of 
legal persons and legal arrangements are at high or medium high inherent risk to 
be misused for ML. All types of legal persons and legal arrangements, except 
Private Trust Companies and Foreign Companies, have a high or medium high 
inherent risk of being misused for TF or PF. It should also be noted that in some 
cases, there was not sufficient data to assess the level of vulnerability of a type of 
legal person or arrangement to a particular factor (e.g. there was limited data 
available on the vulnerabilities of partnerships), which led to an automatic high 
score on those factors for those types of legal persons and arrangements. Once 
more data becomes available, it is likely that there will be more differentiation in 
the level of inherent risk between the different types of legal persons and legal 
arrangements.  
B. CONTROLS 
112. 
The assessment of controls involves an assessment of regulatory 
requirements applicable to types of legal persons and legal arrangements (as 
described in FATF Recommendations 24 and 25) as well as an assessment of how 
well financial institutions and DNFBPs comply with their regulatory obligations to 
prevent and detect financial crime (e.g. implementing customer due diligence 
measures, recordkeeping, ongoing monitoring, staff training, SAR reporting, risk 
understanding, reliance on third parties, measures relating to politically exposed 
persons). It is envisaged that most of the controls assessed will be applicable to 
all of ML, TF and PF, with the exception of certain controls (e.g. implementation of 
TFS), which might not apply to all financial crimes. Controls are scored on a four 
point scale: Good, Satisfactory, Weak and Very Weak.  
113. 
The Assessment of Controls is divided into 4 parts: 
a. Controls for each type of legal person10  
b. General Controls 
c. Accessibility of information by competent authorities 
d. Level of compliance with AML/CFT/CPF measures taken by FIs and DNFBPs  
A. Controls for each type of legal person 
114. 
All legal persons are required to comply with the requirements noted in 
Table 12, except that the requirement to provide shareholder information only 
requires legal persons to provide this information to their registered agent. In 
addition, the requirement to update beneficial ownership on a timely basis has 
 
10 There are no corresponding controls for legal arrangements 
28 | P a g e  
 
been codified into law but not implemented as of the date of this report. Therefore, 
the strength of this control is rated satisfactory.  
Table 12 – Controls for each type of legal person 
Requirement to register with a company registry 
Compliance with the requirement to provide beneficial ownership information 
Requirement to update BO information on timely basis 
Requirement to appoint local person or DNBFP to provide beneficial ownership information  
Requirement to provide basic information 
Requirement to update basic information on a timely basis 
Requirement to provide shareholder information 
Basic information publicly available 
Company required to maintain basic information in country 
Beneficial ownership is accurate and adequate 
 
B. General Controls  
115. 
The next step involves assessing the controls that are in place in the country for 
all types of legal persons and arrangements. The extent of the controls required in a 
country are described in R. 24 and R. 25. In addition, the resources and capacity of the 
registrar are also assessed in this group. 
116. 
The controls assessed in this category are:  
a. Nominee shareholders need to be registered 
b. Nominee shareholders need to disclose their status  
c. Nominee directors’ registration requirement 
d. Bearer shares prohibited or immobilised or dematerialized 
e. AML/CFT/CPF regulation of company formation agents and professional trustees 
f. Recordkeeping requirement for DNFBPs or natural persons keeping BO 
information 
g. Companies registry ensures accuracy of BO info 
h. Companies registry imposes sanctions for failure to provide or update BO 
information 
i. Companies registry imposes sanctions for failure to provide or update basic 
information 
j. Companies registry is sufficiently well resourced 
117. 
In the VI, nominee shareholders must disclose their status to the registered agent 
of the legal person for which they act as nominee. As of the date of this report, the ROCA 
does not verify the accuracy of beneficial ownership information provided and does not 
impose penalties for failure to provide or update beneficial ownership information. 
Recent legislative changes have made this a requirement, and processes are currently 
being put into place to implement these amendments.  
118. 
  The FSC, however, does require TCSPs to maintain BO information on their 
clients in keeping with AML/CFT/CPF legislation and this requirement is tested through 
29 | P a g e  
 
the FSC’s compliance inspection process and penalties are imposed for failure to 
maintain adequate, accurate and up to date BO information. The concept of nominee 
director does not exist in the VI. Bearer shares are prohibited.  
119. 
All types of legal persons and legal arrangements are rated as satisfactory on this 
indicator.  
C. Access to Information  
120. The third step in the assessment of controls involves assessing the effectiveness 
with which local and foreign competent authorities can access basic and beneficial 
information. In relation to domestic authorities, the IN to R. 24 states: “competent 
authorities (…) should have all the powers necessary to be able to obtain timely access 
to the basic and beneficial ownership information held by the relevant parties.”  
121. 
As it relates to international cooperation, the IN to R. 24 states: “countries should 
rapidly, constructively and effectively provide the widest possible range of 
international cooperation in relation to basic and beneficial ownership information”. 
Moreover, countries should “designate and make publicly known the agency(ies) 
responsible for responding to all international requests for BO information.” 
122. 
 As such, the following factors are assessed: 
a. LEAs and competent authorities can access basic information on a timely basis 
b. LEAs and competent authorities can access beneficial ownership information on 
a timely basis 
c. Foreign authorities can access basic information 
d. Authorities can exchange information on shareholders 
e. Avenue for foreign counterparts to access BO information 
f. Agencies responsible for international requests are publicly known 
g. FIs and DNFBPs in country can access basic information on a timely basis 
123. 
The assessment revealed that law enforcement agencies, competent authorities, 
FIs and DNFBPs can always access the information listed above on a timely basis. The 
rating on this factor is Good.  
D. Compliance Levels 
124. 
This risk assessment also considered the compliance levels of entities in 
gatekeeper roles, including TCSPs and the legal profession, with the following 
AML/CFT/CPF requirements, as gatekeepers that are compliant with AML/CFT/CPF 
obligations can detect bad actors and prevent them from operating a legal person or 
legal arrangement in the VI: 
a. Entities carry out entity-level Risk Assessment and implement corresponding, 
targeted controls 
b. CDD Measures implemented for beneficial ownership, including holding 
adequate, accurate and up to date information 
c. Recordkeeping measures (5 years) 
d. Ongoing Monitoring 
e. Quality of Policies and Procedures 
30 | P a g e  
 
f. Controls for Reliance on Third Parties 
g. Internal Controls 
h. Quality of Reporting of Suspicious Transactions 
i. Measures relating to PEPs 
125. 
For FI’s and TCSPs, compliance with controls was rated as generally good 
or satisfactory, with the exception of ongoing monitoring and reporting of 
suspicious activities, which were rated as weak. Overall, the level of compliance 
for this group is satisfactory.  
126. 
The compliance level of the legal and accounting professions was weaker 
than for TCSPs and FIs. The compliance of the legal profession was rated as weak 
or very weak on the issues of business risk assessments, CDD measures, reliance 
on third parties, internal controls and SAR filings. The accounting profession was 
assessed as having the same weaknesses as the legal profession with the 
addition of weakness in ongoing monitoring. Overall, the level of compliance for 
entities in the legal and accounting sectors is weak. 
127. 
Given that TCSPs and FIs are more likely to be involved in company 
formation and ongoing monitoring than lawyers and accountants, the satisfactory 
rating for FIs and TCSPs was given more weight than the rating for lawyers and 
accountants, for an overall rating of satisfactory on this factor.  
Practitioners’ Perspectives – Upgrades in Compliance 
 
Focus group participants stated that the TCSP industry has changed significantly 
in the past 20 years. One participant said “everyone thinks about compliance all 
the time” and another stated that it is important for compliance to be involved in 
the business, as compliance drives many decisions.  
 
Practitioners mentioned that they are less likely to take risks with clients and that, 
in their opinion, the industry is more selective in choosing its clients. The driver for 
this increased selectivity is to minimize risks that could occur, including 
reputational risk, financial risk and regulatory risk.  
 
Some practitioners are starting to rely on automated solutions for customer due 
diligence and ongoing monitoring. They mentioned that AI and data analytics tools 
are making risks easier to monitor using technology but data gathering 
frameworks must be set-up correctly to manage the technology properly.  
 
E. Control Score 
128. 
The average score for each of the four groups of factors is averaged for 
each type of legal person and legal arrangement. The same control score is used 
31 | P a g e  
 
for purposes of ML, TF and PF, given that similar controls apply to each of the three 
financial crimes. This results in a rating of Satisfactory for the controls score.  
129. 
 Table 13 shows the final risk rating, namely the residual risk rating, for ML, 
TF and PF for each type of legal person and legal arrangement. The result was 
derived from weighting the likelihood score from Table 11 at .6 and the control 
score at .4 (as controls can never mitigate all risks) and adding the weighted 
control score with the weighted vulnerability score to arrive at the residual risk 
score.  
Table 13 – Residual Risk Scores 
 
ML 
PF 
TF 
BVIBC - Limited by Shares 
MH 
MH 
MH 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (shares) 
MH 
MH 
ML 
BVIBC - Limited by Guarantee (non shares) 
MH 
MH 
MH 
Unlimited Company  
MH 
MH 
MH 
Unlimited company (non shares) 
MH 
MH 
ML 
Segregated Portfolio Company 
MH 
MH 
ML 
Restricted Purpose Company 
MH 
MH 
ML 
Private Trust Company 
ML 
ML 
ML 
Limited Partnership 
MH 
ML 
ML 
International Partnership 
ML 
ML 
ML 
Partnership without Legal Personality  
MH 
ML 
ML 
Foreign companies 
ML 
ML 
ML 
Vista Trusts 
MH 
ML 
ML 
Express Trusts 
MH 
ML 
ML 
 
130. 
In summary, the risk of misuse for ML is medium high across all types of 
BVIBCs except private trust companies, international partnerships and foreign 
companies. This result is due to the extremely limited number of international 
partnerships, the increased cost and regulatory burden to set up a private trust 
company and the type of business carried out by most foreign companies.  
131. 
The risk exposure to PF is medium high for all BVIBCs, and is medium low 
for legal arrangements and for legal persons that are not BVIBCs. This is due 
primarily to the high threat rating for BVIBCs for PF in comparison with a low threat 
rating for other types of legal persons and all legal arrangements.  The risk 
exposure is similar for TF as for PF with the exception of BVIBCs limited by 
guarantee (that are permitted to issue shares), segregated portfolio companies 
and restricted purpose companies. The overall risk exposure to TF for these types 
32 | P a g e  
 
of legal persons is smaller than their exposure to PF particularly because they 
have fewer cross-border links with high risk countries for TF than high risk 
countries for PF. The VI recognises that while the methodology correctly identifies 
BVIBCs collectively as having the highest level of risk, given the limited number of 
unlimited companies, companies limited by guarantee, SPCs and RPCs on the 
Register; the overall risk, when all other risk factors are taken into account, is not 
as elevated as for those BCs classified as companies limited by shares, which 
make up over 97% of all companies registered.  The elevated risk of these sub-
classes of BVIBCs, in practical terms, is largely attributed to the lack of specific 
data that was available for these sub-classes. 
132. 
Finally, it must be acknowledged that VI has already started implementing 
stronger controls in relation to the risk posed by BVIBCs. In September 2024, 
amendments to legislation were passed in the House of Assembly that require 
legal persons to provide beneficial ownership information to the ROCA and 
ensure this information is kept up to date.  This is in addition to the existing 
requirement to provide such information to their registered agent, which must be 
a licensed TCSP. These requirements came into force on January 2, 2025 and are 
in the process of being fully adopted. This new requirement to provide BO 
information to the ROCA requires disclosure of corporate directors and nominee 
shareholders, and imposes stronger recordkeeping measures on trusts. These 
measures, along with continued surveillance, guidance and outreach to the 
regulated sector to assist them with strengthening their compliance program will 
result in a reduced risk exposure for the VI once those improvements have been 
fully implemented.  
10. CONSEQUENCES 
133. 
The misuse of a VI LP or LA for purposes of ML, TF or PF could have severe 
consequences for the jurisdiction. The VI is an international financial center with 
very strong cross border links. In addition, the financial services industry 
contributes approximately 60% of government revenue. The VI 2022-2024 Macro-
Economic Review and Outlook states that “any shocks to this industry have the 
potential to immediately affect operations of Government.” Fees collected from 
the registration of companies represents approximately 95% of all fees collected 
from the financial services industry. The financial services industry is also one of 
the most important employers in the VI.   
134. 
Against this backdrop, this report has identified the impacts of an ML, TF 
or PF event involving a VI legal person or legal arrangement. Table 14 depicts these 
potential consequences by indicating their relative importance to the VI (on a 
scale of 1 to 4, 4 being the most important). The importance was determined by 
assessing the relevance of each consequence given the context in the VI as well 
33 | P a g e  
 
as the impact on business, financial and political institutions if the consequence 
materialized. All the consequences listed below have the potential to be of a long 
duration, and permanently negatively affect the VI.  The consequences listed 
below can negatively affect the political institutions in the VI, the VI economy, the 
environment to conduct business as well as the interests of persons and 
companies outside of the VI.  
Table 14 – Assessment of Consequences 
Consequence 
Importance 
Unfair competition 
2 
Undermines political institutions 
3 
Illegal business contaminates legal  
1 
Risks for financial sector solvency and liquidity 
3 
Lower profits for the financial sector 
4 
Negatively impacts financial sector reputation 
4 
Increases corruption and bribery 
3 
Changes in foreign direct investment  
4 
Lower public sector revenues 
4 
Increases domestic crime 
1 
 
135. 
Table 14 shows that the most important, and likely, consequences of an 
event involving the misuse of a VI legal person or legal arrangement for the 
purpose of ML, TF or PF are negative impacts on the VI’s reputation as an 
international financial center, lower profits for the financial sector and lower 
public sector revenues. This is due to the wide range of downstream impacts of 
these impacts on the economy. An event negatively impacting the reputation of 
the VI could cause a downturn in the VI economy due to lower revenues from 
company registrations and foreign direct investments, could decrease the public 
confidence in the political and financial systems and ultimately affect 
government spending and investments, which would negatively affect VI 
residents. Depending on the interconnectedness between VI financial institutions 
and legal persons and arrangements, a downturn in legal persons or 
arrangements relating to the misuse of VI’s LPLAs could affect the solvency of the 
banks and securities businesses. Moreover, given that VI legal persons and legal 
arrangements tend to carry out activities mainly outside the VI, negative 
consequences could also have an international impact, for example where the 
predicate offence occurs (such as bribery or corruption) or where the assets are 
held. As such, the impact of an event could be widespread and not be confined 
solely to an impact on the VI financial services sector.  
136. 
Depending on the circumstances surrounding the misuse of a legal person 
or arrangement, an event could undermine political institutions, if it is found that 
the misuse either should have been discovered and sanctioned, or that the 
34 | P a g e  
 
misuse was committed with the consent of someone in the public sector.  The 
involvement of a VI public servant or elected official in the misuse of a VI legal 
person or arrangement could also promote domestic bribery and corruption in an 
attempt to conceal the scheme.  
137. 
The potential consequences that are deemed to be less important include 
unfair competition, increased domestic criminality and contagion. These have 
been ranked lower than the other consequences given the predominantly 
international nature of the legal persons and arrangements formed in the VI and 
the limited interconnectedness with businesses operating in the VI.   
12. 
EMERGING RISKS 
138. 
The evolution of the governance of legal persons and arrangements, for 
example through the use of decentralised models of governance or organisation, 
poses challenges with identifying the persons in control of a legal person or 
arrangement. New governance models also at times could make it difficult for a 
legal person to remain compliant with applicable laws, as there may be no central 
authority in the organisation to enforce this compliance. To date, new governance 
models have primarily been used in the virtual asset industry and are referred to 
as “decentralised autonomous organisation.”    
139. 
As at the date of this report, geopolitical risks are rapidly changing and 
closer relationships between high risk jurisdictions , for example North Korea, Iran 
and Russia, can forge new pathways for these countries to facilitate the 
commission of financial crimes by establishing complex structures of legal 
persons and arrangements, including in countries that may not traditionally be 
seen as high risk jurisdictions, in efforts not only to evade sanctions but also to 
facilitate ML, TF and PF.  
 
Practitioners’ Perspectives – Emerging Risks 
 
Most practitioners who were part of the focus groups stated that ML risk has 
decreased in the VI in the past 20 years, mostly because of increased awareness 
and compliance efforts. However, emerging risks are coming to the forefront.  
 
Participants see an increase in geographical risk with increased business from 
parts of Africa and persons who are not used to providing sensitive information 
about their wealth and history. An increase in global conflicts has also created an 
elevated risk environment, especially surrounding the Russia/Ukraine conflict 
and industry also views that there is an increase in power from China. An increase 
in sanctions could also lead to more risk for VI, as persons seek to misuse VI 
structures to evade sanctions.  
35 | P a g e  
 
 
Technology, particularly cryptocurrencies, is another key emerging risks. 
Practitioners in the VI have seen an increase in clients operating in the 
cryptocurrency/FinTech industry. Practitioners mentioned that opacity of 
beneficial ownership is a key risk with those structures, as they are often 
decentralized. The cryptocurrency and Fintech environment is also becoming 
more complex and novel, which increases inherent risk for practitioners that are 
attempting to adapt to this rapidly changing industry.  
 
Finally, one practitioner noted the impact of increased wealth in new generations 
as increasing the risk, as the young clients are reluctant to interact face to face or 
physically. 
13. 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
140. 
The primary limitation of this risk assessment was the unavailability of 
some data, which could have assisted in a more refined assessment of the ML, TF 
and PF risks, particularly in the differentiation of risk between BVIBCs and 
partnerships.  However, sufficient quantitative, qualitative and typological 
information was collected to be able to assess the exposure of the VI corporate 
sector to ML, TF and PF. The process of risk assessing the ML, TF and PF risks of 
legal persons and legal arrangements in the VI leads to the following 
recommendations for VI: 
a. Implement more detailed and better representative statistics by law enforcement 
agencies to allow VI to more accurately assess the actual risks detected in 
relation to VI legal persons and arrangements. This should include maintaining 
easily retrievable statistics in relation to the different types of legal persons and 
arrangements featuring in a SAR or investigation, other involved jurisdictions, 
predicate offences and other features, including for example, the presence of 
nominee arrangements.  
b. Collect more data relating to legal persons and legal arrangements, including but 
not limited to nature of business (particularly business that is considered high risk 
for ML, TF and PF), extent of nominee shareholder arrangements and more 
detailed information on the use of introducers (for example, the nature of 
business of introducers and risk level assigned to the introducer).  
c. Identify and consider the risks of foreign legal arrangements that have sufficient 
links to the VI; 
d. Ensure that all the elements of FATF Recommendations 24 and 25 are covered 
within VI legislation and implemented, particularly those relating to the collection 
and maintenance of accurate and up to date beneficial ownership information. 
36 | P a g e  
 
e. Once the beneficial ownership registry for legal persons is established, the ROCA 
should implement a risk-based programme to verify the accuracy of the 
information in the registry.  
f. Once the beneficial ownership registry is established, the ROCA should 
implement effective and dissuasive penalties for non-compliance with filing 
obligations, including false, incomplete or inaccurate filings.  
g. ROCA should ensure that all shareholder nominee arrangements for legal 
persons be registered in the corporate registry and impose penalties for non 
compliance with this requirement.  
h. Improve compliance with AML/CFT/CPF requirements particularly for the legal 
and accounting professions through increased outreach, onsite inspections and 
sanctions for non-compliance, leading to increased compliance by entities, as 
evidenced in onsite inspections.  
i. Provide outreach to the regulated sector, primarily TCSPs, and legal and 
accounting professionals, on the risks relating to legal persons and legal 
arrangements in the VI and their role in mitigating that risk.  
j. Continue to develop and enhance understanding of risk of legal persons and legal 
arrangements through typologies and other means, and sharing this information 
with the private sector on a regular basis through JALTFAC, newsletter, outreach 
sessions and other fora. 
k. Regulators and law enforcement agencies to receive training on how VI legal 
persons and legal arrangements can be misused to commit the offences of ML, 
TF and PF.  
37 | P a g e  
 
Appendix A 
Focus Group Questions 
1. How has the risk environment changed in the past 5-7 years?   
2. What are some emerging risks for legal persons and legal arrangements formed 
in the VI?  
3. How does this link to beneficial ownership?   
4. How do the risks differ between types of companies?  
5. How do risks differ between companies and trusts?  
6. How do the risks differ between ML, TF and PF?  
7. What features in your view relating to legal persons or legal arrangements in your 
practice which could increase the risk of those structures being misused for ML, 
TF or PF? (e.g. part of complex structures, high risk jurisdictions, non face to face 
business)   
8. In your experience, how often do they have to go to management or other ways of 
control (where there is no BO by voting shares)? (specify per type of company)  
9. How do you determine who the BO is? How often do you find this challenging?   
10. How often do you interact with PEPs?   
11. How often do you see trusts in the ownership structure?   
12. What do you consider as a complex structure? How often do you interact with 
complex ownership structures? What do you consider as a complex structure?   
13. How do you view the risks of trusts for ML, TF and PF  
14. How often do you see trusts with these clause (flee clauses, revocability, reserve 
powers, bare trusts)  
15. What percentage of your trusts are commercial  
16. How often do you encounter nominee arrangements relating to legal persons?  
17. Can you provide examples of how you see these arrangements being used?   
18. Do you think nominee arrangements increase or decrease the ML, TF, PF risk 
relating to legal persons?   
19. Tell me your experience with using business introducers? (e.g. are they in-group 
or outside, another professional e.g. law firm, countries, etc.?)  
20. What are some ways used to satisfy yourself about the quality of an introducer? 
How do you satisfy that the introducer continues to meet the requirements of 
introduced as prescribed by legislation?  
21. Do you act as introducer? Tell me about some circumstances? In BVI or outside?   
 
 
38 | P a g e  
 
Appendix B 
Information Sources Used 
• FATF Guidance on National Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Risk 
Assessments (2013) 
• FATF Guidance on Transparency and Beneficial Ownership (2014) 
• FATF Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment Guidance (2019) 
• FATF Guidance on Proliferation Financing Risk Assessment and Mitigation (2021) 
• FATF Guidance on Beneficial Ownership of Legal Persons (2023) 
• FATF Guidance on Beneficial Ownership and Transparency of Legal Arrangements 
(2024) 
• FATF – Egmont Group Report on Concealment of Beneficial Ownership (2018),  
• United Nations Panel of Expert Reports relating to North Korea from 2020 to 2024 
• Data from VI Law Enforcement Agencies for the 5 years preceding the risk 
assessment (as described in section 8 of the report) 
• Data from VI FI and DNFBP supervisors and ROCA for the 5 years preceding the 
risk assessment 
• Data from the Governor’s Office on targeted financial sanctions, reported 
breaches and other information received 
• Typologies gathered by the VI law enforcement agencies 
• Statistics from mutual legal assistance requests relating to VI legal persons and 
legal arrangements received by the Attorney General’s Chambers 
• VI Money Laundering Risk Assessment 2022 
• VI Proliferation Financing Risk Assessment 2022 
• VI Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment 2020 
• VI Terrorist Financing Typologies report 2024 
• VI Non-Profit Organisations Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment 2024 
• Open-source case studies and typologies relating to ML, TF and PF involving legal 
persons and arrangements 
• Interviews and questionnaires with private sector participants 
• Interviews with LEAs, the FIA and the FSC 
• Government of the Virgin Islands 2022-2024 Macro-Economic Review and 
Outlook 
 
 
 
 
39 | P a g e  
 
Appendix C 
Acronyms 
BVIBC 
British Virgin Islands Business Companies 
DNFBP 
Designated non-financial businesses and professions 
DPRK 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
FATF 
Financial Action Task Force 
FCU 
Financial Crimes Unit (of the Royal Virgin Islands Police Force) 
FI 
Financial Institution 
FIA 
Financial Investigation Agency 
FSC 
Financial Services Commission 
JALTFAC 
Joint Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Advisory Committee 
LA 
Legal arrangement 
LP 
Legal person 
MER 
Mutual evaluation report 
ML 
Money Laundering 
PEP 
Politically Exposed Person 
PF 
Proliferation Financing 
PTC 
Private Trust Company 
ROCA 
Registry of Corporate Affairs 
SAR 
Suspicious Activity Report 
SPC 
Segregated Portfolio Company 
TCSP 
Trust and Corporate Services Provider 
TF 
Terrorism Financing 
VISTA 
Virgin Islands Special Trust 
 
 
